 
 
• “Women are the unsung heroes”: Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka 
• Towards a new social pact in Latin America: Karina Batthyány
• The health crisis, fertile ground for disinformation: Diomma Dramé
• Rethinking museums for the future: Sally Tallant
• An opportunity to reinvent school: Poornima Luthra
A Whole New World, 
Reimagined by Women 
CourierT HE  UNE SCO
July-September 2020

Facebook Twitter Instagram
Subscribe  
to the print version
1 year (4 issues) : 27€
2 years (8 issues) : 54€
Subscription fees cover printing costs.  
There is no profit motive.
2020 • n°2 • Published since 1948
The UNESCO Courier is published quarterly by the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. 
It promotes the ideals of UNESCO by sharing ideas on issues 
of international concern relevant to its mandate.  
The UNESCO Courier is published thanks to the support 
of the People’s Republic of China. 
Acting Director: Matthieu Guével
Acting Editor-in-chief: Agnès Bardon 
Associate Editor: Katerina Markelova
Section Editor: Chen Xiaorong 
Editions
Arabic: Fathi Ben Haj Yahia
Chinese: Sun Min and China Translation & Publishing House
English: Shiraz Sidhva
French: Christine Herme, proofreader
Russian: Marina Yartseva 
Spanish: William Navarrete
Digital edition: Mila Ibrahimova
Photographs and illustrations: Danica Bijeljac
Translation and layout co-ordination:  
Marie-Thérèse Vidiani
Administrative and editorial assistance: 
Carolina Rollán Ortega
Production and promotion 
Ian Denison, Chief, UNESCO Publishing 
and Branding 
Eric Frogé, Senior Production Assistant
Digital production: 
Denis Pitzalis, Web Architect/
Developer
Communications: Laetitia Kaci
Translation: 
Peter Coles, Cathy Nolan
Design: Jacqueline Gensollen-Bloch 
Cover illustration: 
© Luba Lukova, USA (www.lukova.net)
Printing: UNESCO 
Interns:  
Lei Runzhou, Li Yihong (China)
Farah Hanafi (Morocco) 
Linda Klaassen (Sweden)
Co-editions
Catalan : Jean-Michel Armengol 
Esperanto: Chen Ji  
Korean: Soon Mi Kim 
Portuguese: Ivan Sousa Rocha
Information and reproduction rights: 
courier@unesco.org 
7, place de Fontenoy, 75352 Paris 07 SP, France 
© UNESCO 2020  
ISSN 2220-2285 • e-ISSN 2220-2293
Periodical available in Open Access under the  
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 IGO (CC-BY-SA 3.0 IGO) licence  
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/igo/). 
By using the content of this publication, the users 
accept to be bound by the terms of use of the UNESCO 
Open Access Repository (https://en.unesco.org/open-
access/terms-use-ccbysa-en). The present licence 
applies exclusively to the texts. For the use of images, 
prior permission shall be requested.
The designations employed in this publication and 
the presentation of the data do not imply the expression 
of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO 
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, 
city or area of its authorities, or concerning the 
delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. 
Articles express the opinions of the authors and do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of UNESCO and 
do not commit the Organization. 
Read and share
Share the UNESCO Courier 
with your network by promoting it,  
in line with the Organization’s  
Open Access publishing policy. 
Subscribe  
to the digital version
https://en.unesco.org/courier/subscribe
It’s 100% 
FREE
Follow the latest news  
from the Courier 
@unescocourier

CourierT H E  U N E S CO
Contents
Editorial

More egalitarian? More respectful 
of the planet? Dominated by new 
technologies? The world that emerges 
from the health crisis will bear the 
scars of this unprecedented collective 
experience – the near-universal lockdown 
imposed to contain the COVID-19 
pandemic. But will it really be different? 
And if so, in what way? Much has already 
been said on the subject.  For months, 
specialists across the globe have held 
forth in the media, providing a wide 
range of opinions. What they have had 
in common, for the most part, is that 
they are men. 
As nurses, caregivers or teachers, women 
have been on the front line in the fight 
against the pandemic. They have been 
hit hard by the social and economic 
crises, confronted with domestic violence 
amplified by the lockdowns – yet their 
views  have not been heard enough. 
In this issue, the UNESCO Courier gives 
women a voice. Political scientists, 
journalists, sociologists, researchers, 
writers, and teachers  have drawn 
the contours of the post-pandemic 
era – whether it is the future of 
museums, changes in schools, the rise 
of disinformation, or the challenges 
of scientific research. 
These are all subjects that resonate 
at the heart of UNESCO’s mandate, 
and around which the Organization 
has rallied during the crisis –  providing 
global data on the situation of schools, 
defending open science, disseminating 
content to counter disinformation, 
and supporting education systems 
and cultural industries. 
This issue paints a sobering picture 
of our times – highlights the fault-lines 
exposed by the health crisis, and shows 
the magnitude of the challenges 
ahead. It also underlines the potential 
for scientific, cultural and educational 
co-operation that this unprecedented 
event has revealed. If the reflections, 
the desire for change, and the movements 
of mutual aid that have emerged are 
not short-lived, the world really could 
become a more united, more sustainable 
and more egalitarian place. 
Agnès Bardon

WIDE ANGLE
A Whole New World,  
Reimagined by Women  4
What the pandemic says about us  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Ekaterina Schulmann
The pandemic: Mirroring our fragilities   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9
Kalpana Sharma
Rethinking museums for the future  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .12
Sally Tallant 
Education: An opportunity to reinvent teaching   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .15
Poornima Luthra
“Women are the unsung heroes of this crisis” .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .18
An interview with Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka
Latin America: Towards a new social pact   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .21
Karina Batthyány
The health crisis: Fertile ground for disinformation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .24
Diomma Dramé
Research: “This epidemic will be a detonator”  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .27
An interview with Nathalie Strub-Wourgaft
Indigenous peoples: Vulnerable, yet resilient   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .29
Minnie Degawan
Shifting borders: Invisible, but very real  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .32
Ayelet Shachar
Women’s writing: Illuminating the darkness  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .34
Zhai Yongming
ZOOM 36
Lockdown travel diaries   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .37
Photos : Twelve photographers from Women Photograph’s  
The Journal project  
IDEAS 46
The microbes and viruses that made history   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .46
Ana María Carrillo Farga
OUR GUEST 48
“Every crisis is also an opportunity”   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .48
An interview with Yuval Noah Harari
MAPPING THE WORLD 54
Education: An unprecedented crisis   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .55

WIDE  
ANGLE
A Whole New World, 
Reimagined by Women 
 Francesca Palumbo, a nurse 
at the intensive care unit of the 
San Salvatore Hospital in Pesaro, 
Italy, photographed in March 2000, 
after a gruelling twelve-hour shift.
© Alberto Giuliani (@alberto_giuliani)

6   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

What the pandemic 
says about us
The higher value placed on human life, the rise of the influence 
of health services, the medicalization of our lives, the extension 
of state power – these phenomena did not arise from the crisis 
caused by the pandemic, but were revealed by it.
Ekaterina Schulmann
Associate professor at the Moscow School 
of Social and Economic Sciences (MSSES), 
and Associate Fellow, Russia and Eurasia 
Programme at Chatham House, The Royal 
Institute of International Affairs, London .
While it is too early to discuss 
the consequences of the pandemic, we can 
already see trends emerging that did not 
arise from the crisis, but which the crisis 
has made salient. Societies, governance 
systems, businesses and citizens can 
only react with the tools they had before 
the emergency. As it is often said, generals 
are always fighting the last war. From 
this perspective, we are all generals, 
individually and collectively.
What the recent global health crisis has 
revealed is that governments can no longer 
afford to allow an epidemic to spread. If 
they want to ensure their political survival, 
they must show they are doing everything 
possible to preserve human life.
In the past, the emergence and spread of 
a disease like COVID-19 would have been 
considered inevitable. However, in view 
of our current ethical requirements, this 
is no longer possible – because of the 
higher value placed on human life.
The primacy  
of human life 
In the twentieth century, citizens could 
accept having their freedoms restricted 
in the name of high ideals or superior goals 
– victory over the enemy, the construction 
of a great work or the promise of a golden 
age. In the twenty-first century, it is not 
the prospect of a bright future that leads 
people to accept a curtailing of their 
freedoms, but the desire to avoid a large 
number of casualties. Today, the constraints 
that we are under – and which many 
perceive as a sign of increased state 
violence – are in fact the corollary of our 
need for security.
Life has become so precious that no 
government in the world can afford a loss 
of life that society considers preventable. 
Moreover, it should be noted that states 
– whether democratic or authoritarian – 
have taken measures that are quite similar 
in terms of restrictions on freedoms. 
They have, however, adopted very 
different strategies to support the 
economy, shattered by the shock of the 
epidemic and lockdown. The modern 
economy is based on services, and not on 
the exploitation of resources. It is therefore 
rational to preserve people – producers 
and consumers of services – even if it may 
seem unprofitable in the short term, from 
a strictly economic point of view. 
During this crisis, humanist culture 
has revealed that it is ready to make 
concessions on freedom  in the name 
of public health. The increase in life 
expectancy, medical progress, the cult 
of healthy living and the narcissistic 
valorization of social networks have 
favoured this phenomenon.
The constraints that 
we are under, are in 
fact the corollary of 
our need for security
 “Extraordinary 
circumstances justify 
and legitimize surveillance 
and control, in the eyes 
of societies, even 
in democratic regimes.”©

 V
ic
to
r B
og
or
ad
 /
 C
ar
to
on
 M
ov
em
en
t  

WIDE ANGLE  •  What the pandemic says about us   |   7 

for formulating these recommendations 
and monitoring their implementation, if 
it is created, will become an important 
player in international relations.
Common experience
While the world has suddenly closed in on 
itself, it has never been more connected. 
This common  tragedy has united 
humanity around a shared cause. Such 
a communion of destiny may not have 
occurred since the race for the atom bomb 
– with the difference that today, citizens 
are much more involved in world events.
It is at these pivotal moments that alliances 
that will shape the world of tomorrow 
are forged – as was the case after the two 
world wars that shook the twentieth 
century. Who will be the winners? Who 
could be the new members of an Anti-
Virus Security Council? It is too soon to say.
The medicalization 
of everyday life
The imperative of “security”, a notion 
to be understood as both “survival” 
and the “preservation of health”, has 
resulted in the medicalization of our 
daily lives. This does not refer only 
to the circulation of medical expressions 
and practices in our lives. Tomorrow, 
it could well extend to political processes 
and governance – if the international 
community were to decide, for example, 
that the fight against diseases requires 
the same level of co-ordination as the fight 
against terrorism.
Medical knowledge – and with it, the 
pseudoscientific representations that 
flourish, particularly online – has invaded 
everyday language and entered our daily 
lives. Soon, no one will be surprised by 
the presence of temperature-measuring 
devices in public places, in the same way 
that we have become accustomed to metal 
detectors. Soon, we will hardly remember 
the time when consulting a doctor was 
a matter of free will. Perhaps tomorrow, 
people with fevers will be placed under 
house arrest, as we have just been.
The medicalization of everyday life also 
means an increased role for the health 
services, including in the political field. 
This process can be observed at the state 
level, but also at the global level. The 
political importance of the World 
Health Organization (WHO) is measured 
not only by the number of countries 
that implement its epidemiological 
recommendations, but also by 
the harshness of the political resistance 
to these recommendations.
The resumption of international trade, 
air transport and travel will necessitate 
the development of a new set of global 
health rules and regulations, in the near 
future. The supranational body responsible 

©
 Ju
an
 M
an
ue
l C
as
tr
o 
Pr
ie
to
 /
 A
ge
nc
e 
VU

 “This common  tragedy has united humanity around a shared cause.” 

8   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

What is certain, though, is that 
the industrialized countries will have 
to assume greater responsibility for 
addressing the shortcomings of the 
health systems of poorer countries.  
Otherwise the efforts made to combat 
a pandemic will be in vain. The benefits 
of drastic measures such as lockdowns 
will be negated if a new outbreak occurs 
in a country that is unable to contain 
an epidemic.
We have just lived through a common 
experience – one that was lived and 
shared by a very large number of people 
at the same time. It is similar to what 
happened when the Twin Towers collapsed 
in New York, nearly twenty years ago. 
The 11 September 2001 attacks 
in the United States marked a turning 
point. After that date, extensive powers 
were granted to security services 
around the globe, and the surveillance 
of citizens was intensified. Practices such 
as the installation of cameras in public 
places, the use of  facial recognition 
software and wiretapping systems became 
widespread after the attacks. Our daily lives 
– especially our air travel, with its series 
of controls that we now consider normal – 
have also been altered.
More surveillance, 
less freedom
During this crisis, certain states have 
taken advantage of the coronavirus 
epidemic to legally expand their powers 
of surveillance and use of citizen 
data. We see thus, how extraordinary 
circumstances justify and legitimize 
surveillance and control, in the eyes 
of societies. The same applies 
to democratic regimes. The epidemic 
threatens to erode privacy even further. 
In democracies at least, counterbalancing 
powers exist to limit this intrusion into 
our data. This is not the case in autocratic 
regimes.
The threat is all the more real in times 
of an epidemic, when everything 
favours the power of the state – starting 
with the economic crisis generated by 
the health crisis, which makes public 
companies and institutions almost 
the only solvent employers. The crisis also 
strengthens the welfare state, which acts 
as a safety net – perhaps turning workers 
into recipients of a universal income 
tomorrow. 
Invisible work
While the world was in lockdown, 
millions of people realized that working 
remotely, in all its forms, is more beneficial 
to the employer than to the employee. 
Thanks to this new organization of work, 
the costs of heating, maintenance, rent, 
and even equipment, were now borne by 
the employee.
Moreover, the boundaries between 
working time and personal time, 
between workspace and living space, 
tend to become blurred. Such a trend 
undermines the hard-won rights acquired 
by social and trade-union movements 
in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 
It brings us back – albeit at a new 
technical level – to an earlier situation, 
when relations between employees 
and employers were poorly regulated, 
work was often carried out at home, 
and paid for on a piecework basis.
During this unprecedented lockdown 
period, employees also found themselves 
obliged to take on service functions 
normally performed by others – such 
as childcare, care of the elderly, cooking 
or other domestic tasks. The pandemic 
has highlighted this invisible and unpaid 
service labour – sometimes referred to as 
a “second GDP”– that is usually performed 
by women. The crisis may provide an 
opportunity to discuss the need to pay for 
these forms of invisible work.
It is always in the wake of major disasters 
that the international relations system has 
been reorganized. The First World War gave 
birth to the League of Nations, the Second 
World War, to the United Nations. 
On the basis of a common experience, 
humanity united and designed for itself 
new instruments, new mechanisms 
of governance. New institutions could 
emerge from the current crisis.
Unlike other past tragedies that 
pitted humankind against each other, 
the pandemic confronts us with only 
a virus. So, we have no one to hate. In 
the face of this crisis, we have no other 
choice but to show solidarity.
It is at these pivotal 
moments that alliances 
that will shape the world 
of tomorrow are forged 

©
 M
ag
al
i L
am
be
rt
 /
 A
ge
nc
e 
VU
 
 “The pandemic has highlighted 
the invisible and unpaid service 
labour that is usually performed 
by women.” Photo from the series 
At home, March 2020.


WIDE ANGLE  •  The pandemic:   Mirroring our fragilities   |   9 

Kalpana Sharma
Independent journalist, columnist 
and author, based in Mumbai . The Silence 
and the Storm: Narratives of violence against 
women in India is her most recent book .
When you can spot the speck of a fishing 
boat on the horizon with your naked eye, 
you know that something has changed. 
The usual suffocating brown cloud has 
lifted. The air is clear. And the sky is a blue 
that you have forgotten.
The world has changed in 2020. A new 
coronavirus has literally knocked the air 
out of the world. Each day brings 
greater uncertainty, more news of death 
and infection, and increasing anxiety 
about jobs and the economy as we battle 
a disease that has no cure – yet.
Nothing can prepare you for the 
unexpected. But if there is one lesson 
to be learned, it is that those countries 
that invested in affordable and accessible 
health care are today best equipped 
to deal with an unexpected health crisis.
Given the nature of this new virus – 
contagious, deadly and swift – one would 
have expected nations, and people within 
nations, to come together to fight it. 
Instead, tragically, we have watched how 
COVID-19 has laid bare the existing fault-
lines in all our societies. 
Fault-lines exposed
At a time when a virus is not choosy about 
who it infects, our societies continue 
to discriminate against their own people 
on the basis of age-old entrenched 
attitudes towards the ‘other’ – be it people 
from another religion or another race. A 
pandemic cannot erase hate and prejudice; 
tragically, it tends to exacerbate them.
Another fault-line exposed is inequality. 
We can watch what the French economist 
Thomas Piketty terms “the violence 
of inequality” playing out in this crisis. 
Those at the bottom, without a safety net, 
are also the very people now struggling 
to stay afloat during this global pandemic. 
In India, this “violence of inequality” 
has played out in a heartbreakingly 
vivid manner in the spring of 2020, as 
a nation of 1.3 billion people was locked 
down to stem the spread of COVID-19. 
Thousands of men and women – left adrift 
in cities where they had migrated, looking 
for work and sustenance – lost their jobs 
when the economy ground to a halt. With 
no money or safety net, they were left 
with no alternative but to set out on foot, 
walking hundreds of kilometres to reach 
their homes in the countryside. 
They trudged in the heat, with little food 
and water. Some survived, but many died 
on the way. The images of this exodus 
of rural migrants are testimony to how 
The pandemic:   
Mirroring our fragilities
Social inequalities, gender violence, poor housing, failing health 
systems – the health crisis has exposed the fractures that divide our 
societies. To change the world, we will have to address challenges that 
we have not been able to face up to so far.  
The world 
has changed 
in 2020
 The announcement of a lockdown in India resulted in a mass exodus 
of migrant workers from the cities to their villages. New Delhi, March 2020. 


©
 A
ni
nd
ito
 M
uk
he
rje
e

10   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

unjust patterns of economic development 
elevated their suffering in the event 
of such an emergency. 
The third fault-line that runs through every 
society, but jumps out at times of crisis, 
is that of gender. Women are “locked 
down” with their abusers, with few avenues 
of escape. Yet this phenomenon is not 
getting the attention it deserves. Could 
it be because this gross violation of the 
rights of millions of women across the world 
occurs even in so-called “normal” times?
Urban poverty
In many countries, COVID-19 has struck 
hardest in urban areas. The disease has 
spread rapidly among the urban poor, 
who live in congested, often unhygienic, 
conditions. The chances of the people 
living in such conditions surviving this 
pandemic are slim – given the poor public 
health facilities, especially in most poorer 
countries. 
These people literally hold up our cities 
–  the conservancy workers, those 
in the service industry, in construction, 
in small-scale industries, domestic help, 
caregivers, and many more. Most of them 
are poorly paid and live in dense urban 
poor settlements, where there is no 
running water and inadequate to non-
existent sanitation. 
In such settlements, the spread 
of COVID-19 cannot be controlled by 
way of physical distancing – because 
the urban poor have no space to escape 
each other. The lack of running water 
makes hygiene measures such as 
frequent hand-washing and disinfecting 
surfaces impossible.
 A man who was unable to return to his village observes the Ramadan fast, outside his shuttered shop in Old Delhi. 
There is little to indicate 
that things will not return 
to the old, profligate 
ways of living

© Anindito Mukherjee

WIDE ANGLE  •  The pandemic:  Mirroring our fragilities    |   11 

Affordable housing has rarely been 
a priority in our cities. The consequence 
is what we are witnessing today. 
The overwhelming number of new 
infections have occurred in some 
of the most densely-packed and poorer 
parts of cities – whether in Mumbai 
or in New York.
A whiff of good news
And finally, coming back to clean air in our 
cities. The Global Energy Review 2020, 
the flagship report of the International 
Energy Agency (IEA) released in April, 
noted a record annual decline in carbon 
emissions of almost eight per cent this 
year. This is good news. Except that it is 
a fortunate fallout of an unfortunate crisis, 
and not the result of addressing the very 
real dangers of climate change.  
COVID-19 has changed many things, yet 
changed nothing. But once this crisis 
passes, there is little to indicate that things 
will not return to the old, profligate ways 
of living. We have seen little evidence 
of any concrete plans to permanently 
reorder our cities, for instance, so that 
the poor can live with dignity, or where 
eco-friendly public transport is prioritized. 
There are many challenges ahead, 
starting with the fundamental overhaul 
of our health-care systems. Countries, 
and states and provinces within 
countries, that have come out well 
in this crisis are those that have invested 
in quality public health. 
The second is addressing the embedded 
inequities in our societies. Even 
the best systems fail in an unequal 
society. This is a long-term project, 
for sure, and cannot be addressed 
overnight. Irrespective of whether 
we live in countries with strong or weak 
economies, if there is systemic inequality, 
it will manifest during crises – by 
killing those who are already impaired 
and vulnerable.
“The world has enough resources for 
everyone’s needs, but not for everyone’s 
greed,” Mahatma Gandhi once said. 
Yet, it is greed that has fuelled our 
economies – as borders and boundaries 
have lost relevance in the global fervour 
to satiate consumerist appetites. It has 
also threatened the future of the planet, 
as natural resources are devoured, never 
to be replaced. 
COVID-19 has compelled us to slow 
down. But as and when we succeed 
in overcoming this particular crisis, 
will we witness a new world order? 
Will we recognize the precarious existence 
of millions among us? Will we hear 
the voices of the women, and the most 
vulnerable, once the noise of business-as-
usual begins?
There are no easy answers. But we can, 
and must, ask. And, perhaps, hope.
 Connaught Place, the commercial centre at the heart of New Delhi, is deserted on Day 1 of India’s lockdown. 

©
 A
ni
nd
ito
 M
uk
he
rje
e

12   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

Rethinking museums  
for the future
With new constraints on welcoming visitors, the Queens Museum in New 
York City – like many other institutions around the world – is reflecting 
on how best to redefine our ties to art and culture. The museum’s 
team is working on an inclusive model that places artists, educators 
and residents at the heart of its activities, as it seeks to reinvent itself.
Sally Tallant
President and Executive Director, 
Queens Museum, New York . 
Across the globe, museums have been 
closed due to the impact of COVID-19. 
This has meant that these institutions 
have had to learn quickly how to operate 
remotely and to remain relevant 
and visible while their buildings remain 
out of bounds. The role of culture 
and museums in our society is already 
going through rapid change. Digital 
content is now essential for maintaining 
audiences confined to their homes. 
The challenges of adapting to reduced 
visitor numbers, social distancing 
in the museum, and ensuring 
staff and public safety mean that 
the experience of culture has radically 
changed. These unpredictable times 
necessitate quick decision-making 
at all levels.
Globally, cultural leaders are working 
together to share information 
and knowledge at this time and there 
is a real sense of community, support 
and collaboration in spite of the 
challenges we are each facing. In 
New York, there have been regular 
meetings of small groups and much 
larger coalitions. Over 200 people from 
cultural organizations met daily to gather 
and share information and lobby together. 
 Detail from Maintenance Art, a sculptural installation by Mierle Laderman Ukeles at the Queens Museum, 2017, 
in which the artist highlights the role of essential workers who maintain indispensable urban systems.

©
 H
ai
 Z
ha
ng
 /
 C
ou
rt
es
y 
of
 th
e 
Q
ue
en
s 
M
us
eu
m
 

WIDE ANGLE  •  Rethinking museums for the future    |   13

We are finding innovative ways to keep 
our institutions afloat and to inspire our 
communities locally and globally. 
A need to change 
models
Until there is a complete recovery, 
museums with large endowments 
and collections to draw from will be 
in a better position than small ones, that 
rely on contributions from supporters, 
who themselves will likely experience 
deep losses. All museums will be analysing 
their income streams. Large museums 
that depend on tourism and admission 
fees, will need to change their models. 
Small museums will have the advantage; 
we are nimble, used to working with small 
budgets and more attuned to the needs 
of our neighbours and communities.
As we navigate the challenges 
of a dramatically altered world due 
to COVID-19, we are thinking about 
the future of the Museum. Queens, 
the city’s most diverse borough, 
where the museum is located, was at 
the epicentre of the pandemic in New York. 
Its neighbourhoods have been among 
the most vulnerable in the five boroughs. 
They include many of our essential workers 
– they drive cabs, stock supermarkets, 
make and deliver food, and work in the gig 
economy. Often, their jobs do not offer 
health insurance, benefits or employment 
protection. Many are undocumented 
immigrants and do not have the luxury 
of staying home and not working. 
There has been a systemic political failure 
to provide equitable resources and health 
care, and this has led to the development 
of a society that lacks empathy, 
care and respect for people and for 
diversity. Working-class communities 
in our neighbourhoods are suffering 
disproportionately. 
Now we are living with a palpable 
precarity. We are faced with many 
questions: how will we make our way 
back to the Museum? What will it mean 
for people to gather once again in public 
places? What measures will we need 
to take to make our spaces safe – for our 
staff and for the public? Together with 
my colleagues in Queens, we are working 
with the community to understand what 
is relevant and what is needed. We will 
need to recover, reconnect, repair, heal; 
we will need to learn together how we can 
generate productive and joyful spaces, 
while responding to the care and practical 
needs of our communities.
Showcasing existing 
collections  
The history of the Queens Museum, 
and its location, can provide a guide 
to understanding how we might 
create a relevant model of a Museum 
for the future, and develop strategies 
to support artists, educators and our 
communities. The collection of over 
13,000 objects enables us to tell stories 
that will help us to inform our future, 
using the fragments of the past. We will 
invite artists, curators and the public 
to agitate and activate its content to make 
exhibitions and displays. 
Founded in 1972, the Museum is located 
in the New York City Building, which was 
built to house the New York City Pavilion 
at the 1939-1940 World’s Fair. The Fair 
was planned during the Great Depression 
(1929-1939) and intended as an uplifting 
project for the public and for the economy. 
The theme, The World of Tomorrow, 
emphasized this optimism and hope for 
the future. From 1946 to 1950, the building 
housed the General Assembly of the newly-
formed United Nations until the site of the 
UN’s current home in Manhattan became 
available. 
Many important decisions were taken  there, 
including the establishment of the United 
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). By way 
of honouring this history, we are developing 
a Children’s Museum, which is inspired 
by the history of recreation and play 
in the surrounding park and in the building, 
which was also once used as an ice rink.
The strategies of the past – of employing 
artists to work together with communities 
and in organizations – can provide us with 
inspiration for how we might once again 
assert culture and the arts as an essential 
industry, and central to society and its 
recovery. We will need new financial models 
and new tax initiatives to aid recovery.
Writers, designers, 
architects, invited 
to contribute 
For the 1939 World’s Fair, many projects 
were produced through President Franklin 
D. Roosevelt’s New Deal work-relief 
programmes, which created employment, 
including artistic production in the wake 
of the Great Depression. Artists were paid 
to create work for government buildings, 
community centres and institutions through 
various programmes, which created 
employment for thousands of artists over 
the years. These initiatives and histories 
continue to inform generations of artists 
and organizers in the US.
We will need 
to recover, 
reconnect, 
repair, heal
 The painter Ilya Bolotowsky (left) 
and John Joslyn, his assistant, working on 
a mural for the Hall of Medical Sciences 
at the 1939 New York World’s Fair.


Pu
bl
ic
 d
om
ai
n

Creative industries: Increasing resilience  
The cultural and creative sectors have been among the hardest 
hit by the pandemic. Museums were particularly affected, 
with nearly ninety per cent – or more than 85,000 institutions 
– forced to close their doors (UNESCO, May 2020) for varying 
lengths of time during the COVID-19 crisis.  
Deprived of their public, these institutions are facing sharp 
declines in revenue. The professions linked to museums, their 
operation and the extent of their influence, could be seriously 
impacted as a result. A survey conducted by the International 
Council of Museums (ICOM) in mid-May on International 
Museum Day estimates that nearly thirteen per cent of the 
world’s museums may  never be in a position to reopen.
The crisis has also revealed major cultural and digital 
disparities. The digital divide, already significant between 
countries and regions, has been exacerbated by the crisis. In 
Africa and the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) – which 
account for only 1.5 per cent of the total number of museums 
worldwide – only five per cent of museums were able to offer 
alternative online content to audiences during the lockdown 
period, according to UNESCO. 
In response to this cultural and social crisis, UNESCO 
launched the ResiliArt movement in April 2020, to highlight 
the considerable impact of lockdown measures on the culture 
sector. Its aim is to mobilize professionals from the cultural 
industry and other stakeholders to increase the resilience 
and sustainability of creative industries and cultural 
institutions.
As part of this movement, UNESCO Member States have 
placed among their priorities, the adoption of measures 
and policies to support and promote the diversity of cultural 
expressions – such as capacity-building, social protection for 
museum staff, digitization and inventorying of collections, 
and the development of online content.
This international mobilization has made it possible to initiate 
dialogues to inform countries on the development of policies, 
and financial mechanisms to help creative individuals 
and communities overcome the crisis. The discussions have 
highlighted the means available to the public and private 
sectors to preserve cultural ecosystems and explore paths 
to recovery.  
By the end of May, over fifty ResiliArt debates had already been 
organized in more than thirty countries – with the participation 
of artists and cultural professionals from all the world’s regions. 
14   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

Today, we face the prospect of mass 
unemployment and an economic 
recession, a growing refugee crisis, as 
well as living in the midst of a global 
health crisis. We will need to develop 
an understanding of how we can live 
and work with a constantly shifting world 
and how we can together face collective 
grief – grief for the loss of loved ones, loss 
of habitat due to the climate emergency, 
and grief for the loss of a way of living. 
So, what have we learnt, what does it 
mean to reimagine a museum and what 
tools do we need to be able to create 
relevant and useful organizations? 
At the Queens Museum, we will embrace 
the uncertainty of this moment and trust 
that artists, writers, designers, poets 
and architects can help us to remake 
the Museum. We are developing 
a model of a museum that puts artists, 
educators and organizers at its centre. 
We will work in coalition with cultural, 
educational and community partners 
locally and create the conditions to 
support the production of work, ideas 
and collaboration. We will employ 
artists from our communities and will 
provide studio space, support, resources, 
technical support and mentors to create 
intergenerational and international 
conversations. We will reimagine how 
the Museum can operate and focus 
on production on-site, and in our 
neighbourhoods. 
Education is at the heart of our work 
and we will continue to develop 
digital content and will broadcast from 
the Museum as well as convene and create 
much-needed moments of connection 
and intimacy. We will be hyper-local 
and international in our reach. 
Connecting through art
Queens is multicultural in its traditions, 
and over 160 languages are spoken 
in the borough. This diversity will be 
reflected in the art that is produced 
and education and social practice 
that takes place. At the same time, 
the dissemination of what is produced, 
and descriptions of what takes place 
in the borough, will be communicated 
digitally to a global audience – both in 
places that reflect the backgrounds of the 
Queens communities, and in dialogue with 
other culturally diverse neighbourhoods 
and cities around the world.
“The only thing that makes life possible 
is permanent, intolerable uncertainty; 
not knowing what comes next,” wrote 
the American author Ursula K. Le Guin in her 
1969 science-fiction novel, The Left Hand 
of Darkness.
Are we living in the dystopian future 
we feared and that was described so 
eloquently by Le Guin? I hope that we can 
find our way back to our communities. 
I hope that we can recover and reimagine 
our cultural spaces and once again create 
and connect through art and culture. I hope 
that this experience has shown us how 
we can overcome distance and find new 
ways to communicate, collaborate and build 
proximity and community. 
I know that museums and culture have an 
important role to play in the healing and 
recovery that we will all need in the coming 
months and years, and look forward to 
us finding our place together with our 
communities – in Queens and elsewhere.
The only thing that makes 
life possible is permanent, 
intolerable uncertainty…


WIDE ANGLE  •  Education: An opportunity to reinvent teaching    |   15 

Poornima Luthra
Educator at the Copenhagen Business 
School, and founder and chief consultant 
of TalentED Consultancy ApS, a training 
and consultancy firm based in Copenhagen, 
Denmark .
With over a third of the global population 
under some form of lockdown due 
to COVID-19, the health crisis  has caused 
an unprecedented disruption in education. 
From kindergarten to university, schools 
worldwide have been temporarily closed, 
forcing educators to find alternative 
teaching methods. This situation is likely 
to leave a lasting footprint.
“We will feel the effects of COVID-19 on 
students globally until a vaccine is widely 
available, at the very least,” says Amy 
Valentine, executive director of Future 
of School, an American public charity that 
supports the growth of innovative school 
models. “The way systems and individual 
districts have responded to this crisis will 
have a ripple effect on students as they 
advance, ready or not, to new grade levels.” 
The negative impact on the mental 
health of students being away from 
the social interaction and routines that 
a school environment provides, is of prime 
concern. Even the technology- saturated 
generations of Z (children born in the years 
1996 to 2015) and Alpha (children born 
after 2015) have been craving social 
interaction and physical experiences away 
from their devices. This has been perhaps 
the biggest challenge for educators 
to address through online platforms. 
“Human contact is important when 
it comes to education, especially for teens,” 
a high school teacher in Singapore said. 
“Most students would definitely rather go 
to school, to feel included in a community, 
where there is more structure to their 
learning.”
With stringent social-distancing 
requirements in place, it will likely be 
a while before social interaction levels 
return to pre-COVID-19 times.The impact 
of this on today’s generations of learners 
may be felt for years to come. “Once 
schools reopen and a sense of normalcy 
prevails, the job of educators will be tough 
– to bring students up to speed, plug gaps 
in learning and provide greater social 
and emotional support to students who 
require it,” Sarita Somaya, a primary teacher 
at an international school in Singapore, 
explained. 
For many children around the world, 
schools provide their one main meal 
of the day. The closures have forced these 
children to seek out alternative options, 
often unsuccessfully. Gayathri Tirthapura, 
co-founder trustee of the Tejasvita Trust 
– an organization based in Bengaluru, 
which provides education to underserved 
communities in south India – explains 
that “families are struggling to have three 
meals a day, and are depending on private 
donors and relief packages announced by 
the government.” 
Education: An opportunity 
to reinvent teaching 
More than 1.5 billion students – or ninety per cent of the world’s student 
population – have been affected by temporary closures of schools 
and universities in 2020 due to the health crisis, according to UNESCO. 
Educational institutions have been forced, almost overnight, to switch 
to remote learning platforms and devise alternative teaching methods. 
 Seven-year-old Nelly studies on 
her tablet at home in Abidjan, Côte 
d’Ivoire, April 2020. Educational videos 
produced by UNICEF and the country’s 
Ministry of Education are also 
broadcast on national television.


©
 U
N
IC
EF
 /
 F
ra
nk
 D
ej
on
gh

16   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

In countries including the United States, 
United Kingdom, and New Zealand, 
concerted efforts have been made 
to ensure that disadvantaged children 
are provided laptops, tablet computers 
and mobile hotspots. In India, the team 
at Gurushala, a learning portal which 
provides digital education for teachers 
and content for students, explain that 
“access to education has never been easy 
for India’s children from disadvantaged 
groups. With mobile and internet 
penetration growing by the day, there 
is a sudden spotlight on technology”. 
The end of group 
activity?
What does this health crisis mean for 
education in the long run? “Primary 
classrooms have become more clinical 
Diplomas received 
by robots
Yet, in spite of the grim scenario, 
educational institutions around the world 
are finding creative and innovative 
ways to address the challenges posed 
by COVID-19 – from holding university 
graduations with robot avatars replacing 
students in Japan, to using social-
distancing hats in China. Educators have 
also had to get creative about designing 
content to deliver academic lessons in an 
engaging way across the digital platforms 
available. 
To address the lack of social interaction, 
counsellors in some schools have created 
themed activities to engage students 
– some educators have even organized 
virtual picnics with their classes. In rural 
schools, teachers have had to think 
of different ways to engage with students 
– often via text messages to parents’ 
mobile devices and phone calls. Where 
children do not have access to even 
a pencil at home – let alone a computer 
– teachers have had to think on their feet 
to find new ways of teaching them. 
There is the chance that 
COVID-19 will be disruptive 
in a positive way 
 Nine-year-old Maria follows a pre-recorded lesson via WhatsApp 
on her father’s smartphone at a camp for internally displaced 
people in Kili, north of Idlib, Syrian Arab Republic. 


©
 U
N
IC
EF
 /
 A
li 
H
aj
 S
ul
ei
m
an
A global coalition, so learning never stops
The situation is unprecedented: schools in over 190 countries 
around the world closed their doors overnight, to contain 
the pandemic. By mid-April, 1.57 billion children and young 
people – ninety per cent of the world’s school population – 
were out of school. This education crisis has disproportionately 
affected vulnerable and disadvantaged students, for whom 
school also plays a key role in terms of nutrition, health, 
and even emotional support.
To ensure educational continuity during the health crisis, 
UNESCO launched the Global Education Coalition on 26 March 
2020. Its objective is to pool the resources of international 
partners, civil society, and private sector partners, to help 
countries develop equitable distance learning solutions. 
While endeavouring to ensure that responses are co-ordinated 
and meet the specific needs of different countries, the coalition 
will also work to facilitate the return of students to school 
when they reopen.
About a hundred United Nations agencies, international 
philanthropic, non-profit, and media organizations, and private 
enterprises have joined the initiative. They include Microsoft, 
Google, Weidong, KPMG, Khan Academy, and the BBC World 
Service. Mobile phone operators like Orange and Vodafone 
have also partnered with the coalition, to provide increased 
connectivity and free access to online educational content.
While the proportion of young people without internet access 
at home is under fifteen per cent in Western Europe and North 
America, it is as high as eighty per cent in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Although mobile phones today allow learners to access 
information, connect with their teachers and each other, about 
56 million students live in areas with no mobile networks – 
around half of them in sub-Saharan Africa.
UNESCO’s work in the coalition has included the global 
monitoring of national and localized school closures 
and the numbers of students affected. It has also set up weekly 
webinars for education ministry officials on the educational 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

WIDE ANGLE  •  Education: An opportunity to reinvent teaching    |   17 

– where students can’t share, use shared 
resources or work in huddles, excited 
over a science experiment. I hope I’m 
mistaken, but will this be the end of group 
work and rotations? Will we go back 
to classrooms with the teacher lecturing at 
the front and students sitting in their seats 
all day?” Taryn Hansen, a primary school 
teacher in Perth, Western Australia, where 
schools reopened in late April, wondered. 
Sankalp Chaturvedi, an associate 
professor at Imperial College Business 
School, London, believes that “in the long 
term, higher education will still be done 
in the classrooms. People will be more 
comfortable with online education as 
an alternative, which was not as evident 
or effective before the lockdown.”
“There is the chance that COVID-19 will 
be disruptive in a positive way,” Sandy 
Mackenzie, director of the Copenhagen 
International School, predicts. This 
may lead “schools to discard what was 
obsolete, to employ technology effectively 
and to ensure that educators are 
developing the skills that new generations 
need for the decades to come.”
Reduced inequalities 
in education
The use of digital technology implies 
widespread access to it. The pandemic 
has highlighted the inequality in both 
the quality and accessibility to education 
globally, and the digital divide that exists, 
even in developed nations. With only 
sixty per cent of the global population 
being online prior to the pandemic, 
governments, publishers, technology 
providers and network operators have 
had to work together to enable educators 
to provide asynchronous and synchronous 
education online to as many students 
globally as possible. 
One programme that does this 
is the Learning Passport, a digital remote 
learning platform, originally developed 
for displaced and refugee children by 
the United Nations Children’s Fund 
(UNICEF) in collaboration with Microsoft. 
Due to start as a pilot programme in 2020 
– with children in Kosovo, Timor-Leste 
and Ukraine being the first to experience 
it – the project has rapidly expanded 
its reach to include schools affected by 
closures worldwide. Now all countries 
with a curriculum capable of being taught 
online have access to the programme’s 
content through online books, videos 
and additional support for parents 
of children with learning disabilities. 
To achieve Goal 4 of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
within the next decade, we will, hopefully, 
see more public and private institutions 
come together to make our educational 
systems more resilient, inclusive 
and equitable for all. 
Rethinking the role 
of the educator 
The new remote learning environment has 
meant that educators have had to think 
creatively about content and the best 
possible ways to teach online. This 
provides the catalyst for rethinking the role 
of the educator, while adding value 
to what is taught.  
This experience has also shown us 
that there is potential for flexibility 
in how education is delivered – creating 
alternatives to more traditional 
educational formats and structures. 
Educators and parents have observed 
that some of their students or children 
are flourishing in the new context. This 
could lead to the development of more 
sophisticated remote learning, or blended 
learning options for students who prefer 
such an educational experience.
This crisis has resulted in a digital 
disruption, but also underlined the need 
to rethink what future generations are 
taught. This has been driven more recently 
by research from the World Economic 
Forum (and other organizations) on skills 
required by the future workforce. These 
future skills include higher cognitive 
skills of entrepreneurship, creativity, 
and innovation, and social and emotional 
intelligence skills – such as resilience, 
adaptability and having a growth mindset. 
To solve some of the world’s most pressing 
global challenges in the future, education 
will need to focus on the development 
of these skills. 
Redefining what education will look like 
for future generations in a post-COVID-19 
world will require the combined efforts 
of the various stakeholders. They will have 
to think hard and honestly about the issues 
involved, and then take the necessary 
actions to address them.
Even technology-saturated 
generations of children have 
been craving social interaction 
 Xiaoyu, a high school student in Beijing, follows an online learning 
programme at home on an educational platform set up by the government. 
Her mother, seen in the background, also works remotely, February 2020. 

©
 U
N
IC
EF
 /
 Y
uy
ua
n 
M
a

18   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

Interview by Laetitia Kaci
UNESCO
 In March 2020, you warned of an 
increase in gender inequality due 
to the health crisis. Why is this pandemic 
particularly detrimental to women? 
There is no crisis that is gender neutral, 
and this one is no different. Often, 
the crisis accentuates the inequalities 
between men and women that already 
exist. 
Women have experienced great hardships 
due to this pandemic. Many of them 
work on the front line and have been 
directly exposed to the virus. They have 
also been hit hard by its economic 
and social consequences. The interruption 
of activity due to the crisis has led 
to greater economic hardship for 
women, who generally work in more 
precarious and lower-paid jobs than 
men. Many of them have lost their means 
of livelihood. 
Additionally, many women depend on 
social services, which have become less 
accessible during this period. Those who 
did not have access to social support 
in the first place, are even worse hit. 
 The pandemic has brought 
to the forefront crucial professions – such 
as nurses, teachers, cashiers – in which 
women are over-represented. Could this 
crisis change the way we perceive these 
workers?
Women are the real heroes of this crisis, 
even if they are not recognized as such. 
But curiously, there seems to be a lack 
of awareness that women are actually 
shouldering the response to this crisis. 
Even if they are saving lives, they remain 
unsung heroes.
743 million  
girls out of school  
during the pandemic  
(UNESCO, April 2020)
School closures increase drop-out rates that disproportionately affect 
adolescent girls, reinforcing gender disparities in education.
Up to 25%  
increase in violence  
against girls and women 
(United Nations, April 2020)
Based on data from countries with reporting systems. 
In some countries, reported cases have doubled.
I hope that this perception will change. 
That is why we have to keep talking about 
the role they play – put their efforts front 
and centre, so no one can escape it. 
 What can women bring to crisis 
management?
Women are viewed by our societies as 
the main carers, whether paid or unpaid. 
But they also know how to go beyond 
thinking of this as a purely health-
related crisis to be managed. Because 
women know how to multitask, they are 
perhaps better placed to understand 
that in a situation like this, we are dealing 
with several factors – such as economic, 
social, health and food security. They have 
a better understanding of intersectionality 
because they experience it on a daily basis. 
So they are already hardwired to deal with 
crises like these.
 In a statement in April 2020, you 
referred to the shadow pandemic 
of increased violence against women. 
What impact have the lockdowns had 
on the situation of women?
In that statement, I said that helplines 
and shelters for victims of domestic 
violence around the world have 
“Women are the unsung 
heroes of this crisis”
The health crisis, and the subsequent widespread lockdowns worldwide, have 
led to a surge in violence against women. Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive 
Director of UN Women, warns that women’s rights could be diminished as 
a result of the pandemic.

WIDE ANGLE  •  “Women are the unsung heroes of this crisis”   |   19 

reported an increase in calls for help. 
The confinement has exacerbated tensions 
and increased the isolation of women with 
abusive partners, while cutting them off 
from the services that are best able to help 
them. This particular context has made 
reporting abuse even more complicated, 
due to limitations on women’s and girls’ 
access to phones and helplines, 
and disrupted public services like police, 
justice and social services.
In some countries, where services 
to protect victims of domestic violence 
are not considered essential services, 
women have been deprived of all help, 
while they remain locked in their homes 
with their abusers. This has made it even 
more difficult for women to cope with 
the violence.
Is there a risk that women’s rights are 
being diminished?
Definitely, women’s rights have taken 
a step back – they are even grinding 
to a halt in some cases. We must not allow 
this to happen. 
This year, 2020, is a big year for women. 
It marks the twentieth anniversary 
of the United Nations Security Council 
resolution 1325 (on Women, Peace 
and Security). We must push on all 
the plans that we have, and get ready for 
when it is possible to be more active. But 
we have to stay on top of that agenda 
and we cannot shelve it. It is as important 
for women to achieve their rights as it is 
to survive COVID-19. These two battles [for 
women’s rights and against the disease] 
have to be fought together. And we have 
to win them both.  
 How can we ensure that women’s rights 
are not victims of this crisis?
In the economy, for instance, we have 
to make sure that the stimulus packages 
[offered by  governments in different 
The confinement 
has exacerbated tensions 
and increased  
the isolation of women
70% women  
exposed to the virus  
in health systems
As women make up the majority of health-care workers 
(WHO, 2019), they are on the front line in the fight against 
COVID-19, and are at greater risk of being infected. 

©
 U
N
 W
om
en
 /
 E
lm
a 
O
ki
c 

20   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

while ensuring that it is not accompanied 
by a widening of the digital divide. 
Communities do not always have access 
to technology, and even where there 
is technology, there is still a gender digital 
divide. We have to continue to make that 
fight a reality. We have to make sure that 
girls in poor communities do not miss 
out on education when education moves 
to digital platforms. 
I hope that UNESCO, UN Women, 
the Broadband Commission, 
the International Telecommunication 
Union (ITU) and ministries of education can 
work together to ensure that a broadband 
infrastructure is established in rural schools 
and communities in informal settlements 
– so that everyone, everywhere, has access 
to education.
countries] target women very clearly, 
and that they work for the women 
in the informal sector. These are 
some of the rights that we will have 
to continue to fight for. The fight against 
gender-based violence will not end 
after the crisis. We must remain vigilant 
and aim to flatten the curve of violence 
against women.
We must also encourage women to take 
up positions of leadership in the response 
to the pandemic in the fight against 
the virus – especially in countries where 
they are under-represented in the health 
sector and beyond – and call for fairer 
representation in certain sectors. This 
is where our efforts must be focused.
It is also necessary to encourage 
the development of distance education, 
 Christine Banlog (centre), carries large sacks of produce up the crowded stairs to the Sandaga market 
in Douala, Cameroon. The 64-year-old has worked as a market woman for twenty-two years. 
740 million women 
at risk of poverty
The economic crisis related to the COVID-19 pandemic  
disproportionately affects the 740 million women 
working in the informal sector (ILO, January 2019).
47 million women 
deprived of modern 
contraceptives
(UNFPA, April 2020)
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to the overburdening of health 
systems and the closure of social service institutions, including 
family planning facilities on which these women depend. 


©
 U
N
 W
om
en
 /
 R
ya
n 
Br
ow
n 

WIDE ANGLE  •  Latin America:  Towards a new social pact    |   21 

Karina Batthyány
Executive Secretary of the Latin American 
Council of Social Sciences (CLACSO) 
and Professor of Sociology, Universidad de la 
República, Montevideo, Uruguay .
The coronavirus pandemic has 
had an unprecedented impact on 
the lives of people in Latin America 
and the Caribbean (LAC). The 
repercussions are particularly severe 
for low-income households. The health 
emergency declared in response 
to COVID-19 completely disrupted 
everyday life, like in most countries around 
the world. 
The magnitude of the crisis in the region 
has reopened debates on the role of the 
state, politics in general, and public policies 
in particular. While some predict the end 
of humanity, others argue that nothing 
will change. What is certain, though, 
is that we are in a phase of transition 
– our societies, in some aspects, will 
undergo reconfigurations in the short 
and medium term.
Forecasts by the United Nations 
Economic Commission for Latin America 
and the Caribbean (ECLAC) predict 
a 5.3 per cent fall in regional gross 
domestic product (GDP) by 2020 – 
the worst recession in the region in the last 
100 years. Unemployment is also projected 
to rise by 12 million, in an area where fifty-
three per cent of jobs are in the informal 
economy. This is particularly serious, 
given that few countries in the region 
offer unemployment benefits. In 2019, 
only Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, 
Ecuador, and Uruguay had unemployment 
insurance for workers in the formal sector.
The poorest  
are hardest hit
Given the economic and social inequalities 
in the region, the consequences 
of unemployment will disproportionately 
affect the poor and vulnerable layers of the 
middle-income population. Women will 
also be impacted more severely.
The crisis is also likely to result in an 
increase in informal jobs, as poorer 
families are forced to send their children 
to work, in order to survive. This will lead 
to an increase in child labour. Poverty 
is projected to increase by 3.5 percentage 
points, while extreme poverty is set 
to grow by 2.3 percentage points (ECLAC, 
2020).
The collapse of health systems in many 
countries also emphasizes the need 
to move towards the consolidation 
of a universal health system – that 
guarantees quality and has the necessary 
resources to cope in times of crises. 
It should also take a comprehensive 
approach to health, accounting for 
the socio-economic situation of people 
and their quality of life.
The current economic model has 
generated inequalities and a high 
concentration of wealth. And in 
the absence of a universal welfare state, 
access to social benefits remains a 
privilege in the region. This was already 
a major problem before the pandemic, 
but it is now a question of survival. It is 
therefore essential, in the medium term, 
to rethink economic, social and labour 
policies, and to promote decent work and 
the universal fulfilment of social rights. 
Latin America:  
Towards a new social pact 
Declining incomes, school drop-outs, the growth of informal work, 
and steep rises in unemployment. The social consequences of the health 
crisis for the inhabitants of the Latin America and the Caribbean region 
have been massive. The author calls for the establishment of a fairer 
and more supportive social system to avoid a deepening of inequalities. 
 Red flags appear at windows 
in working-class neighbourhoods 
in Bogota, Colombia, signalling 
to the government that families do 
not have enough to eat, April 2020.


©
 N
ad
èg
e 
M
az
ar
s 
/ 
C
ov
id
 T
im
es
 P
ro
je
ct

22   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

A basic income
The current context opens the way for 
a debate on the need for a minimum 
basic income in the region. This should 
be based on the premise that access 
to essential goods is a necessary condition 
for the existence of a democratic 
citizenship, which guarantees the dignity 
of all. The LAC is the most unequal region 
in the world, and this health crisis is likely 
to accentuate these inequalities even 
further.
Finally, it is important to analyse 
the impact of the health emergency on 
gender inequalities. A central dimension 
of this is in the area of care – of children 
and the elderly – which can be seen as 
an expression of the division of labour 
between the sexes.
While lockdowns have proven to be 
effective to combat COVID-19, they have 
disrupted the dynamics of employment, 
domestic life and the way we care 
for children and the elderly. Workers 
in the informal sector, women and children 
have been especially affected. The 
containment has had a disproportionate 
effect on women’s lives, as they are mostly 
responsible for domestic and care work 
– tasks that contribute to the sustenance 
of households, and have historically 
enabled the world to function.
 A street vendor in Lima, Peru, hawking ceviche, a local 
seafood dish marinated in lime juice and served cold, 2016. 
The current economic model 
has generated inequalities 
and a high concentration 
of wealth 


©
 M
au
d 
Ve
ith
Cities put to the test
Cities have been particularly hard-hit by the COVID-19 
pandemic. As the virus has spread rapidly through densely 
populated areas, they have had to find ways to tackle the social, 
economic, and health crises stemming from the outbreak. 
Among the cities that have stood out most for their efforts 
in mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on vulnerable groups, 
are those belonging to the International Coalition of Inclusive 
and Sustainable Cities (ICCAR). The urban platform against 
racism and discrimination, launched by UNESCO, gathers more 
than 500 cities around the world. 
Since its inception in 2004, ICCAR has been involved in policy 
development, capacity building and awareness-raising 
activities. It advocates global solidarity to promote inclusive 
urban development free of all forms of discrimination. 
In the wake of the pandemic, ICCAR member cities have 
committed to sharing their responses with all other cities 
in the network –  to learn from each other and provide a wide 
array of policy options to address the crisis. 
In Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, and one of the 
members of the Coalition of African Cities against Racism 
and Discrimination, health-related information was 
disseminated through communities via their ward councillors, 
interreligious councils, associations for disabled persons, 
market chairpersons, youth leaders and tribal leaders. 
All of them have  received continuous sensitization training 
on COVID-19 responses. 
As one of the members of the Coalition of Inclusive 
Municipalities, the Canadian municipality of Wood Buffalo 
set up a Vulnerable Persons Registry for individuals 
and communities to provide regular check-ins, information 
and referrals, and mental health support. City staff who could 
not work from home were redeployed as “Isolation Angels” 
– providing food hampers and activity kits to those in self-
isolation. Lastly, a curbside support centre was established, 
with phones and laptops for vulnerable populations to register 
for Red Cross and other support.
In Turkey, Kadıköy (a district of Istanbul), a member 
of the European Coalition of Cities Against Racism (ECCAR), 
established a Corona Crisis Desk, to support the elderly 
and those living alone. Hundreds of hot meals were prepared 
every day by famous chefs in the city’s canteen and then 
distributed by its staff to those in need. 

WIDE ANGLE  •  Latin America: Towards a new social pact     |   23 

Women more vulnerable
According to figures from the International 
Labour Organization (ILO), 126 million 
women work in the informal sector 
in the LAC. That accounts for about half 
of the region’s female population. Informal 
work is synonymous with job insecurity, 
low incomes, and a lack of  basic protection 
mechanisms, particularly in a crisis like 
the current one. 
The levels of informal employment 
are extremely high in many countries 
in the region. In Bolivia, Guatemala 
and Peru, eighty-three per cent of women 
have informal jobs with no  social security 
cover or protection under labour laws. 
Nearly forty per cent of working women 
in the LAC are employed in the retail, 
catering, hotel and domestic sectors. 
These are the most affected and the least 
protected jobs in the context of the current 
crisis.
As a result, a large proportion of Latin 
American women have lost their incomes 
in these difficult times, making their 
situation even more precarious. This could 
further widen the economic gap between 
women and men. For every 100 men living 
in extreme poverty in Latin America today, 
there are 132 women.
A new “social pact”
The lockdowns in the region have also 
resulted in an escalation of gender-based 
violence. We know that even in “normal” 
times, financial insecurity and social 
instability contribute to domestic 
violence. Social distancing and stay-at-
home messaging was promoted under 
the premise that the home is a safe place 
for people to shield from the pandemic. 
But this was not the case for many 
women and children.
Faced with these challenges, there 
is a need to ultimately build a new 
“social pact” – based on the recognition 
of solidarity and interdependence 
as fundamental values for 
the establishment of a fairer social 
system in the LAC. This crisis has 
highlighted the consequences of the 
commodification of public and common 
resources on our lives. The pandemic has 
clearly demonstrated that states are not 
dead yet, and that they have a central role 
to play in the implementation of policies 
that are capable of effectively transforming 
everyday lives.
These public policies must address 
the continually-deferred challenge 
of building universal systems of protection. 
They should be focused on people rather 
than the market, and put life and health 
care at the centre. To meet this challenge, 
the state – and especially the social state – 
has a major role to play, as does the need 
for greater regional and international 
collaboration and co-operation.
Women 
account 
for half 
the region’s 
informal 
workers
 A girl participating in a performance by women of all ages 
in Chile, in a protest to mark the International Day for the Elimination 
of Violence against Women, 25 November 2019.

©
 V
al
en
tin
a 
C
or
te
se
 L
as
tr
a

24   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020
The health crisis:  

Diomma Dramé
Journalist and health researcher at 
the French-language website of Africa 
Check, based in Dakar, Senegal .  
The non-profit is Africa’s first independent 
fact-checking organization .
COVID-19, an unknown disease till 2020, 
has caused an unprecedented global 
health crisis. Many questions about 
this new virus still remain unanswered 
by scientists – including  the nature 
of immunity of those who have been 
infected, the seasonality of the virus, 
and its capacity to mutate. Our lack 
of knowledge about this disease and its 
evolution have fuelled a thirst for 
information, in Africa and elsewhere. It has 
also led to the proliferation of rumours, 
fake news and disinformation – with social 
media networks serving as sounding-
boards.   
The French-language office of Africa 
Check has been working to combat 
disinformation since the beginning of the 
outbreak. Using specialists and researchers 
to fact-check and verify stories, the Dakar-
based website has published around fifty 
articles relating to COVID-19. 
In the absence of effective treatments 
for the disease, articles and messages 
about purported miracle cures have 
proliferated. Following research and claims 
by a French physician and infectious 
diseases specialist, Didier Raoult, on 
the use of hydroxychloroquine as a cure 
for COVID-19, information spread through 
WhatsApp and Twitter in several West 
African countries that the leaves of the 
neem tree contained chloroquine. 
This sparked a mad rush for these leaves. 
However, the quinine derivative does not 
come from a plant, but is obtained through 
chemical synthesis. Similarly, black tea, 
pepper soup, vitamin C, and garlic have 
been put forward on social media as foods 
that help prevent or cure the disease. 
The World Health Organization (WHO) has 
refuted these claims.   
Conspiracy theories
At the same time, the epidemic has led 
to the dissemination of images and videos 
that have been manipulated or taken out 
of context. Some of these have alleged, 
for example, that  vaccination campaigns 
could be forced, and are actually designed 
to spread the virus. Others seek to spread 
discrimination, targeting Chinese nationals 
in particular. A video showing the burning 
of a building containing shops in Ibadan, 
the capital of Oyo State in Nigeria, was 
wrongly portrayed as a reprisal against 
its Chinese owner. But a tweet from 
Fertile ground 
for disinformation
Disinformation and conspiracy theories have proliferated on social 
media during the pandemic. Black tea, neem leaves and pepper 
soup have been touted as miracle cures for COVID-19, in Africa 
and elsewhere. To combat this infodemic, digital platforms must 
be made more accountable, fake news tracked and called out, 
and media literacy developed. 

Fighting the infodemic
Faced with the flood of rumours and disinformation on the internet and social media 
networks during the pandemic, journalists have had to work twice as hard as usual 
to counter inaccurate or misleading news. All the more so now, since forty-two 
per cent of the more than 178 million tweets on Twitter linked to COVID-19 were 
produced by robots, and forty per cent were considered “unreliable”, according to a 
study by Italy’s Bruno Kessler Foundation. 
To improve access to information, UNESCO has created the  Resource Centre 
of Responses to COVID-19, a clearing house for selected verified information 
on the health crisis. Its purpose is to provide advice to combat misinformation, 
encourage the sharing of experiences and best practices, and foster North-South 
and South-South co-operation. 
The Organization has also made available several handbooks to support journalists 
on the front line in the fight against disinformation.
In partnership with the Innovation for Policy Foundation (i4Policy), UNESCO has also 
launched the  #DontGoViral online campaign. Based primarily on the mobilization 
of artists and cultural entrepreneurs in Africa, the initiative is designed to inform 
communities about COVID-19 by giving them access to free, open-licence content 
in different African languages.

WIDE ANGLE  •  The health crisis: Fertile ground for disinformation    |   25 

the Oyo State government clarified 
that the building was in fact owned by 
a Nigerian, and eighty per cent of those 
employed there were Nigerian. 
In a spurious attempt to explain 
the emergence of the pandemic and its 
spread, stories of a Western conspiracy 
against Africa have been circulated by 
internet users across the continent. This 
was done, in particular, by hijacking 
the words of United Nations Secretary-
General António Guterres, who warned 
in an interview with Radio France 
Internationale (RFI) on 27 March 2020 
that COVID-19 could kill millions in Africa 
if  immediate action was not taken. The 
theory of a vaccine funded by the Bill 
and Melinda Gates Foundation to control 
African populations also spread like 
wildfire. This information is not only 
blatantly false, it is deliberately designed 
to mislead.  
The circulation of rumours and their 
consequences is not specific 
to the coronavirus crisis. In 2014, fake 
news provoked resistance to the response 
strategy to combat the Ebola virus in some 
of the affected countries.  
In an article, “The ‘exceptionality’ of Ebola 
and popular ‘reticences’ in Guinea-
Conakry,” published in 2015 in the journal 
Anthropologie & Santé, Sylvain Landry 
Faye explains that the first cases of deaths 
due to the virus in the same family had 
been interpreted as a sign of mystical 
punishment, or a curse brought on 
by committing a theft or adultery. 
These rumours fuelled beliefs that 
the disease was not real – making 
communities develop attitudes that 
rejected the response strategy put 
in place by the state and its partners 
to stem the epidemic. Other rumours 
portrayed Ebola Treatment Centres (ETCs) 
as contamination sites – places of death 
where bodies and organs were being 
trafficked. 
Filling a void
In the case of coronavirus, social media 
and apps like Facebook, Messenger, 
and WhatsApp have given fake news an 
unprecedented impact. Besides providing 
global access to information, these 
platforms also allow their users to add 
or produce material, and circulate it in 
record time. Posted on 20 April 2020, 
the video on the Ibadan fire had been 
shared over 380,000 times three days later. 
Other factors have also encouraged 
the circulation of rumours and fake news. 
In Senegal, for example, the traditional 
media’s focus on the number of people 
infected by COVID-19 and messages 
about the best way to prevent the spread 
of the virus did not fully satisfy the needs 
of citizens – who were looking for more 
positive news on possible treatments. So 
social media networks were employed 
to fill this void.  
Fake news, which usually circulates 
in groups or circles of like-minded 
individuals, is easily  consumed 
and considered to be “well-sourced” 
information. Voice messages and texts 
are often attributed to personalities, 
authorities or hospital service providers 
– who use their false authority to offer 
simple solutions, like regularly drinking 
hot or salty water to disinfect the throat. 
So-called religious leaders can also play 
this role. 
It is not always easy for the ordinary 
citizen to distinguish between information 
from traditional media – which follows 
the rigours of news collection, processing, 
and verification – and information 
available via social media, even when 
this is clearly inaccurate or misleading. 
The desire to believe – especially in times 
of crisis – can outweigh the desire to be 
informed. 
Social media has 
given fake news an 
unprecedented impact


©
 F
al
co
 /
 C
ar
to
on
 M
ov
em
en
t

26   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

Developing critical 
thinking 
The avalanche of fake news on social 
media, which the WHO has labelled 
an infodemic, has prompted digital 
platforms to launch an offensive to curb 
the viral spread of false information. 
This is done by promoting content 
from official sources, or banning 
advertisements touting miracle cures. 
Journalists specialized in fact-checking, 
like those at  Africa Check and other fact-
checking websites around the world, 
work hard to correct facts and guarantee 
reliable sources of information. 
However, these efforts to stem 
the deluge of misinformation are 
clearly not enough. In May, the UN 
launched Verified, a global campaign 
which will create a cadre of “digital first 
responders” to share compelling, clear 
and accurate information about the crisis, 
and raise awareness about the risks 
of misinformation.  
In 2019, Facebook launched a new 
flagging tool, allowing Instagram users 
to flag posts that they think contain 
fake news. It might also be a good 
idea to involve influential social media 
bloggers to raise awareness and train 
their administrators and moderators 
to combat false news.  
Successful initiatives can be replicated. 
One example is Wa FM, an internet radio 
station set up in March 2020 to fight 
fake news on COVID-19 in Côte d’Ivoire. 
Broadcast primarily on Whatsapp, 
it relies on a network of around 
200 volunteer journalists who walk 
the streets of Yopougon, a working-class 
neighbourhood in Abidjan – cross-
checking information to correct fake 
news on social media, and to educate 
and raise people’s awareness. 
To combat fake news, it is necessary to use 
the same channels that disseminate 
and feed it. In Africa and elsewhere, 
it is also necessary to encourage 
critical thinking in citizens, regarding 
the information they receive. This could 
be done by encouraging them to question  
information sources and the identity 
of the authors. Without this kind of media 
education, conspiracy theories and fake 
news will continue to spread unchecked. 
The desire to believe, 
especially in times of crisis, 
can outweigh the desire 
to be informed


©
 A
res / Cartoon M
ovem
ent 

WIDE ANGLE  •  Research:  “This epidemic will be a detonator”   |   27 

Nathalie Strub-Wourgaft
Director of Neglected Tropical Diseases 
at the Drugs for Neglected Diseases 
initiative (DNDi), an independent research 
organization based in Geneva, Switzerland .
Interview by Agnès Bardon
UNESCO
 What motivated the creation of the 
COVID-19 Clinical Research Coalition? 
Clinical research on the coronavirus was 
already very active by mid-March – but 
it was concentrated in rich countries, 
where the majority of infected people 
were also located. There were a number 
of us who were concerned that no 
clinical trials were planned in countries 
in the South, whether in Africa, Asia 
or Latin America. There were still only a few 
cases there, but projections predicted that 
the epidemic would escalate, particularly 
in Africa. There was a clear imbalance 
between North and South in research. 
That is why we launched the Coalition. 
We still had in mind what happened at 
the time of the health crisis with the Ebola 
virus. A multitude of research projects had 
emerged at that time, but there was no co-
ordination and no sharing of information 
between these different projects. It was 
necessary to avoid repeating those 
mistakes.
As COVID-19 was a new disease, 
everything had to be done from scratch 
– new protocols had to be invented, 
samples had to be described, clinical 
images had to be created. The research 
developed in parallel with epidemiology. 
It was necessary to go very quickly, but 
it was also necessary to avoid duplication 
in order to provide rapid answers to basic 
questions – how to avoid fatalities, how 
to avoid hospitalization, how to protect 
oneself, who were the risk groups? To make 
progress on these issues, however, a high 
level of analytical power is needed, which 
means bringing together information 
and data.
 Why is it necessary to develop specific 
research for countries with low resources? 
The therapeutic propositions that could 
be developed in the North are not 
applicable as such in the South – if only 
because comorbidities are not the same 
from one region to another. In Africa, for 
example, malaria, tuberculosis, or HIV 
are widespread, which is not the case 
in Europe. Moreover, health systems 
are different. In industrialized countries, 
hospitals have had difficulty coping 
with the influx of patients with severe 
forms of the disease. What about those 
not equipped with artificial respirators? 
As far as treatments are concerned, 
the molecules that are showing some 
promising results today are injectable 
molecules, and therefore require trained 
hospital staff. If this personnel is not 
available, other therapeutic solutions must 
be found. 
In addition, it is unclear whether the virus 
is the same everywhere. It would appear 
there are geographical variants. Finally, 
the problems addressed by the social 
sciences also depend on the regional 
context – lockdown is not the same 
in Delhi as it is in a rural area in France. 
The impact of this confinement and its 
acceptability by the population varies 
from one region to another. Therefore, 
in research, the notion of context 
is essential. You cannot conduct scientific 
research in industrialized countries 
and apply it everywhere else. Research 
must be guided by the priorities 
of countries.
 Could a health crisis of this magnitude 
raise awareness of the need to federate 
research efforts?
Absolutely. We need to federate efforts 
in terms of identifying treatments, 
and diagnoses. It is necessary for the major 
donors to agree on priorities, which 
is absolutely essential in the response. 
We are at a time in history when 
we are all concerned by a global health 
Research:  
“This epidemic will be a detonator”
Nathalie Strub-Wourgaft is one of the initiators of the COVID-19 
Clinical Research Coalition, launched in April 2020. It brings together 
scientists, physicians, donors and policymakers from over thirty 
countries, to accelerate research on the disease in resource-poor 
nations. She argues that research must be specifically adapted 
to the needs of these countries.
 From microscopic 
to macroscopic, drawing by French 
artist Thierry Olivier Epi2mik.


©
 T
hi
er
ry
 O
liv
ie
r E
pi
2m
ik

28   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

This health crisis will be a tipping point, 
although it is still difficult to measure its 
impact. We are in the process of building 
a new way of working, but much remains 
to be done. One of the achievements 
is that today, we are trying to integrate 
the issue of access into research projects. 
At DNDi, for example, we are currently 
working on a clinical trial. We are looking 
at molecules that will be made available 
to populations, and will be accessible on 
a large scale. It seems obvious, but this 
hasn’t always been the case.
 Could we talk about a breakthrough 
in this health crisis?
There will be a before and an after. How 
could it be otherwise when the infections 
can be counted  in millions, the deaths 
in hundreds of thousands? If this is not 
the case, it means that we are in denial 
about what we have just experienced. 
Time has been lost in research on this 
disease, but less than in the past. Ebola 
was a turning point. COVID-19 will be 
a detonator. This crisis is undeniably 
a lesson. Some people have been trying 
to sound the alarm for several years – like 
Bill Gates, who warned of a pandemic 
many years ago. Some had suggested 
that WHO member countries should 
devote 0.1 per cent of their budgets 
to research, according to priorities defined 
by the research imperatives of the day. 
Those voices must now be heard.
problem. This is a totally new situation. 
Even the Ebola crisis was finally identified 
as an African problem. This new 
virus leaves us no choice but to work 
together. The fact that the World Health 
Organization (WHO) has named its first 
clinical trial “Solidarity” is not insignificant.
 Are we witnessing the beginnings 
of a better governance of research 
efforts?
It is still a little early to say. The will 
is there, and we have better collaboration 
among the research community than 
in the past. We cannot yet talk about 
better governance, but we are getting 
closer to it. At the same time, nearly 
a thousand different clinical trials have 
been launched on COVID-19 – which 
means that internationally, there is no real 
collaboration. 
This new virus leaves us no 
choice but to work together
 Epidemic, painting by Thierry Olivier Epi2mik, 2015. 


©
 T
hi
er
ry
 O
liv
ie
r E
pi
2m
ik
 /
 C
ou
rt
es
y 
of
 C
ab
in
et
 d
’a
m
at
eu
r

WIDE ANGLE  •  Indigenous peoples:  Vulnerable, yet resilient     |   29

Minnie Degawan
Director of the Traditional and Indigenous 
Peoples programme at Conservation 
International in the United States .
Indigenous peoples have always isolated 
themselves from the rest of the world 
when circumstances required it. In 
the Cordillera in the Philippines, for 
example, such a practice – known as 
ubaya or tengaw – is regularly observed  
at specific points of the agricultural cycle, 
to allow for the earth and the people 
to rest. 
No one is allowed in or out of the 
community, including community 
members who happen to be outside 
when the lockdown was announced. 
A knotted clump of leaves is placed at 
various entrances and exits to signify that 
the community is on ubaya. It is taken 
very seriously by community members 
and neighbours alike – to violate it is 
to invite disaster for the entire community. 
The rituals which accompany the ubaya 
are an important part of the community 
response. They are not meant to instil 
fear or invite evil, but serve to strengthen 
the sense of community, as the elders call 
for the protection of all, including nature. 
Similar rituals – which emphasize the need 
to achieve a balance between the spiritual 
and physical world – are performed by 
elders in different indigenous communities 
in the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia 
and Thailand to protect their villages. 
During these lockdowns, community 
members look out for those in need, 
Indigenous 
peoples:  
Vulnerable, yet resilient  
The global health crisis has highlighted the resilience of some 
indigenous communities. But above all, it has revealed 
the fragility of these populations – whose poverty, malnutrition 
and poor access to health care makes them particularly 
vulnerable to infectious diseases. 
A woman tattooed according 
to the 1000-year-old Kalinga tradition, 
looks out of her window in the remote 
village of Buscalan in the Cordillera.
Poverty, malnutrition, 
and a high rate of  
pre-existing health problems 
have aggravated the risks 
of these populations 


©
 Ja
co
b 
M
ae
nt
z

30   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

But the health crisis has also acutely revealed 
the vulnerability of these communities. 
Indigenous populations – who suffer from 
a lack of health-care facilities and insufficient 
access to basic services, sanitation facilities 
and key preventive measures, including safe 
drinking water, soap and disinfectants – 
are the hardest hit by socio-economic 
marginalization that puts them at 
a disproportionate risk during public health 
emergencies.
Their continued struggle with 
deforestation, climate change 
and the loss of traditional livelihoods 
make them particularly vulnerable 
to new infectious diseases. Poverty, 
malnutrition, and a high rate of pre-
existing health problems have 
aggravated the risks of these populations 
– many of whom dwell in multi-
generational homes, in close proximity 
with their elders.
and extend help and share food, 
including dried sweet potatoes that have 
been stored for a rainy day. 
Poverty 
and malnutrition
These traditional practices helped 
indigenous populations to cope with 
the containment constraints imposed by 
the COVID-19 epidemic and to organize 
their survival. “Their good practices 
of traditional healing and knowledge, 
such as sealing off communities 
to prevent the spread of diseases 
and of voluntary isolation, are being 
followed throughout the world today,” 
stated Anne Nuorgam, Chair of the United 
Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous 
Issues (UNPFII).
The efforts of governments 
to respond to the particular 
needs of communities 
are often sketchy
 Hunter-gatherers from the Aeta indigenous tribe hunting for birds and monkeys in a forest on Luzon 
island, the Philippines. They are thought to be among the country’s earliest inhabitants.

© Jacob Maentz

WIDE ANGLE  •  Indigenous peoples: Vulnerable, yet resilient      |   31 

Testing their way of life
The pandemic has only exacerbated 
the multiple problems faced by indigenous 
populations. In northern Thailand, for 
example, forest fires are raging, adding 
pressures to food security, and threats 
to physical well-being. The Naga people 
in India’s north-east are faced with 
increased discrimination owing to their 
physical appearance and misconceptions 
about the virus. Naga students have 
been turned away from their lodgings 
and subjected to violence solely because 
of their Chinese features. The Dumagats 
of Southern Luzon in the Philippines 
dealt with food shortages while trying 
to stop the government from constructing 
the Kaliwa and Kanan dams in their 
territory. A similar story played out 
in Ecuador, where miners continued 
to pass through indigenous territories 
to extract oil, in spite of the lockdown.
But the current crisis is testing their 
way of life. Many cultural practices 
and traditions which call for gatherings 
and processions for events such as 
harvests or coming-of-age ceremonies, 
have been shelved in the interest of the 
safety of elders and the most vulnerable.
The efforts of governments to respond 
to the particular needs of communities 
are often sketchy, and do not address 
the long-term impacts on the livelihoods 
and survival of indigenous peoples as 
distinct populations. Some immediate 
steps must be taken to ensure that 
indigenous peoples are “informed, 
protected and prioritized” during 
the pandemic, Nuorgam stressed 
in a statement. 
A key factor is to make sure that reliable 
and appropriate information is provided 
in indigenous languages. “The indigenous 
elders are a priority for our communities 
as our keepers of history and traditions 
and cultures,” the UNPFII chairperson 
added. “We also ask Member States 
to ensure that indigenous peoples 
in voluntary isolation and initial contact 
exercise their right to self-determination 
and their decision to be isolated be 
respected.”
Any intervention or plan must have 
indigenous communities at the centre, 
in terms of their agency and rights. 
They have emphatically demonstrated that 
where traditional knowledge is still being 
utilized – and when they are in full control 
of their resources, and freely exercising 
their right to self-determination – they 
are more able to protect themselves, 
and nature and their environments. 
This is also true in the face of new 
challenges.
 A young boy from the Ifugao community of wet-rice agriculturalists in the Philippines, is helped by elders 
to don the traditional dress for the annual punnuk ritual, which marks the end of the harvest.

©
 Ja
co
b 
M
ae
nt
z

32   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

Shifting borders: 
Invisible, but very real
Today’s borders are no longer necessarily made of bricks 
and barbed wire. They are increasingly becoming moving barriers 
that rely on cutting-edge technologies and complex regulations 
to impose travel restrictions on citizens. The COVID-19 pandemic 
has further accentuated this phenomenon. 
Ayelet Shachar
Director at the Max Planck Institute for 
the Study of Religious and Ethnic Diversity, 
in Göttingen, Germany . The Shifting Border: 
Legal Cartographies of Migration and Mobility 
is her most recent book .
In 1989, with the fall of the Berlin Wall, 
many predicted that sealed gates 
would soon become relics of a bygone 
era. Today, we find a different reality. 
Instead of disappearing, borders are 
metamorphosing. The border itself has 
evolved to become a moving barrier, an 
unmoored legal construct. It has broken 
free of the map; it may extend beyond 
the edge of territories or into their interiors. 
The unmooring of state power from any 
fixed geographical marker has created 
a new paradigm: the shifting border. 
The shifting border is not fixed in time 
and place; it consists of legal portals 
rather than physical barriers. Responses 
to the global pandemic have accelerated 
this trend. 
In January 2020, when a cluster 
of mysterious viral pneumonia cases 
struck in Wuhan, China, neighbouring 
Asian countries – that had already borne 
the brunt of the SARS and MERS outbreaks 
– wasted no time. In addition to public 
health responses, they introduced travel 
bans that restricted access to their 
territories. 
Regulation of entry can now happen 
in foreign transit hubs, located even 
thousands of miles away. In Canada, for 
instance, anyone – including its citizens 
– presenting with COVID-19 symptoms 
were barred from boarding a Canada-
bound plane. With this move, the country  
stretched its borders outwards both 
conceptually and legally – relocating 
its border-control activities to overseas 
gateways, primarily in Europe and Asia.  
A science-fiction reality
Remarkably, on the latest count 
(May 2020), nearly 200 countries have 
imposed such travel restrictions by 
banning inbound and outbound travel. 
At the height of the crisis, ninety-one per 
cent of the global population were living 
in countries that had introduced travel 
restrictions in response to COVID-19. 
None of these legally mandated bans on 
entry (and in some countries, exit) required 
even one battalion of soldiers to move 
to the edge of the territory, or a single 
sack of cement to be placed at the border. 
Instead, governments shifted the border 
to regulate mobility by blocking travellers 
before they embark, and even after they 
reach their destination – by being told 
to wear GPS wristbands, for example. 
Experts in the travel industry have 
suggested that individuals may prefer 
to pre-quarantine in their home countries. 
Until a vaccine is developed, it is clear 
that the management of mobility 
and migration will be deeply altered. 
 Backscatter Blueprint 
(La Maleta), cyanotype from 
the series X-Ray Vision vs. 
Invisibility, by artist Noelle 
Mason. Based on an image  
from the website of the United 
States Border Patrol.   
©
 N
oe
lle
 M
as
on
Instead of disappearing 
with the fall of the  
Berlin Wall, borders 
are metamorphosing

WIDE ANGLE  •  Shifting borders: Invisible, but very real   |   33 

What resembled science fiction is now 
a reality. Israel’s Ben-Gurion airport, already 
known for its strict security protocol, is now 
in the process of developing a “seamless” 
check-in process, whereby no human 
agent is involved. The goal is to create 
“coronavirus-free transportation hubs” 
and insulated “zones” or “bubbles” in which 
travel will resume. Only the healthy will be 
permitted through these “sterile” corridors. 
These developments raise significant 
ethical and legal dilemmas. Health will 
become an invaluable asset, a prerequisite 
to travel. Countries including Chile, 
Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom 
are exploring the idea of “immunity 
passports” – granting access to public life 
and mobility for some, while reducing 
it for others. 
Smart tunnels 
and biometric borders
Even prior to the pandemic, governments 
were increasing their reliance on 
the biometric regulation of migration 
– which provides unprecedented 
technological “see-all” eyes to monitor 
and track everyone’s mobility everywhere. 
With the simultaneous rise of big data 
and the creation of vast databases that 
record biometric information of travellers, 
our bodies will become our admission 
tickets as biometric borders expand their 
reach. Countries including Australia, China, 
Japan, the United States, and the United 
Arab Emirates are leading the way. Dubai 
International Airport has introduced a pilot 
of new “biometric borders”– known as 
smart tunnels – that identify passengers 
through scans of a user’s iris and face.
To achieve this Orwellian vision, 
the location, operation, and logic 
of the border have to be redefined 
to allow governments or their delegates 
to screen and intercept travellers earlier, 
more frequently, and more distantly. Thus, 
travellers are tracked as they move through 
multiple check-points along the travel 
continuum. 
As part of the effort to achieve migration 
and mobility management, an “electronic 
travel authorization” will now be required 
for the European Union – even for those 
who benefit from visa-free travel and are 
in possession of internationally coveted 
passports. The European Travel Information 
and Authorization System (ETIAS), to be 
launched in 2022, will serve as a clearing-
house for pre-travel authorization 
for visitors to all twenty-six countries 
in the Schengen area. 
Linked to their passports, this additional 
layer of information-gathering creates 
a powerful yet invisible shifting 
border that is operational anywhere 
in the world – prior to departure, adjusting 
itself to the location and risk profile 
of the traveller. 
Our bodies will become 
our admission tickets as 
biometric borders expand 
their reach

 Backscatter Blueprint (Primavera), cyanotype based on an X-ray  image that reveals human cargo 
in trucks. The artist questions the imagery produced by surveillance technologies. 

©
 N
oe
lle
 M
as
on

34   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

A border in each of us
Other projects, such as the EU-funded 
pilot project called iBorderCtrl, add 
futuristic dimensions to mobility 
regulation. Incoming travellers are 
required to “perform a short, automated, 
non-invasive interview with an avatar 
[and] undergo a lie detector.” The data 
is then stored in large interconnected 
databases – allowing authorities 
to “calculate a cumulative risk factor for 
each individual.” 
The calculated risk factor will appear 
in any future border crossing and may 
lead to further checks, or even a denial 
of entry. The iBorderCtrl avatar 
is trained to detect human deception 
by looking for “micro-gestures.” Similar 
developments may soon be operational 
in the US, where AI-powered screening 
systems can track changes in blood 
flow or subtle eye ticks. The once-fixed 
border is thus not just shifting, but also 
multiplying and fracturing. Each person 
effectively “carries” the border with them.
These developments bear dramatic 
implications for the scope of rights 
and liberties. Treating the body as 
the site of regulation is no longer solely 
a purview of national governments. 
Major tech companies are heavily 
involved in data-mining and geolocating 
those who have tested positive for 
the virus (sometimes without consent). 
But the very same crisis has shown 
us that another future is within 
reach. In response to the pandemic, 
the Portuguese government declared 
that all immigrants already on its 
territory – including asylum seekers – 
would gain access to the same rights 
as citizens to “health, social security, 
and job and housing stability as a duty 
of a solidarity society in times of crisis.” 
Here, sharing the same risks, in the same 
place, at the same time, created 
camaraderie and community. 
When the day comes that we can better 
treat this deadly virus, we will be left 
with the task of undoing its harsh, 
exclusionary impacts.

Zhai Yongming
Recipient of numerous international awards 
for her work, including Italy’s Ceppo Pistoia 
International Literary Prize (2012) and the 
Northern California Book Awards (2012) . 
Since her poem sequence, Woman, in 
the 1980s, the Chinese poet has published 
more than ten poetry anthologies and eight 
collections of essays . Her work has been 
translated into many languages . 
In the face of a disaster, what literature 
should try to do is neither express 
a hasty eulogium, nor rash criticism. 
Instead, it should focus on individuals. 
It should be about the true emotions felt, 
and reflections on the disaster. Human 
beings need to learn to have a reverence 
for the unknown, show respect for 
life, and keep away from prejudices 
or a dichotomous way of thinking. 
If we can achieve this, the people of the 
world may be granted more liberty 
and tolerance when the pandemic finally 
dies out.  
Starting with Woman, which I wrote 
in the 1980s, most of my poems have 
drawn inspiration from reality and from 
what goes on in society. So I hope my 
writing at the time of a pandemic is not 
a spur-of-the-moment thing, or just 
about drawing attention. I hope my work 
can be expressions of some concrete 
feelings and thoughts about this outbreak. 
As a writer, you need to present insights, 
rather than just slogans.
A special form of literary expression, poetry 
comes out of the depths of a heart that 
is deeply moved. Poems written at such 
times should be about people’s sufferings 
and resilience in the face of a disaster. 
They need to be thought-provoking. 
A poet must dedicate herself/himself 
to building a just society and protecting 
the environment. A writer is incompetent 
if she evades reality, or fails to say what she 
thinks about the world – she is then not 
playing the role that she is meant to.

A poet must dedicate 
herself to building a just 
society and protecting 
the environment  
Women’s 
writing: 
Illuminating the darkness
The world after the pandemic will be different from the one 
that we’ve always known. It will be more benevolent towards 
the unknown, and more respectful towards living species, 
predicts one of China’s best-known contemporary poets.

WIDE ANGLE  •  Women’s writing: Illuminating the darkness   |   35 

Écriture feminine 
as an alternative
In times of crises, women often 
demonstrate fearlessness, courage 
and engagement. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, Deng Ge, a young woman, 
organized a Contingent of Angels after 
the lockdown of Wuhan – to deliver goods 
to hospitals, care for the homeless, help 
patients find hospital beds, and provide 
free catering for medical workers, on 
a daily basis. She did this out of her own 
free will, braving great life-threatening 
hazards and pressure. Besides her, there 
are many women in Wuhan who have 
silently done their part as volunteers.
Écriture feminine, or feminine writing, 
is a relevant, not outdated, topic today. 
During the outbreak, for instance, 
Ruoshuiyin, a female poet and nurse on 
the front line, wrote poems about the true 
experience and feelings of medical 
professionals, which have been widely 
welcomed by the public. Her writing 
is irreplaceable in that her poems depict 
a character like that of a journalist on 
a battle-field, who can see for herself 
what really happened on the front line 
and present the whole picture. 
In reality, women are already playing 
their roles in public contexts or domains. 
They are in positions which demand 
greater efforts, as they take on tasks that 
are often stereotyped as the business 
of men. Women constantly have to prove 
that being female is not a drawback. 
Feminine writing is not something 
physiological, but rather a new perspective 
that does not follow the masculine 
discourse and thinking blindly. The 
feminine voice represents a different 
benchmark away from the existing 
aesthetic system, instead of simply 
filling the blanks or supplementing 
the masculine discourse.
Some women writers seem to be destined 
to truly transcend the fetters of their 
gender – which, as I see it, means that 
they fear no labelling, and are able to stay 
optimistic. Their work is like a light that 
shines through all darkness. I prefer 
to call this a “white night”, to describe 
this darkness with the ambition 
and benevolence of women.  
The pandemic has overshadowed the rosy 
prospect of a world characterized by 
security and liberty. We will have to live 
with uncertainty about the future for 
quite a long time. There may not be any 
prophet or sage who comes forth to guide 
us through. Will there be more liberty 
and tolerance in this world when we are 
finally through this?
If we are to achieve this freedom 
and tolerance, we must keep off prejudice 
or a dichotomous way of thinking, 
and forsake the habit of bashing things 
we have little or no knowledge of. 
The post-pandemic world should be less 
morbid – there should be more kindness 
towards people from other countries 
and towards other species. As the world 
constantly changes, and however hard 
the human race tries to shape the world 
with advanced technologies, Nature runs 
its own course, and we stand no chance 
of conquering it. We can only regard what 
is unknown with more reverence, and be 
kind to all species of life. 
Zhai Yongming at a farm in the ancient 
water town of Xitang, near Shanghai.
©
 Ji
e 
M
o 

36   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

ZOOM  •  Lockdown travel diaries   |   37 
Lockdown 
travel diaries
Photos: Twelve photographers from The Journal 
project by the Women Photograph group 
Text: Katerina Markelova, UNESCO
Isolation, loss of income, crushing domestic burdens 
– women photographers have been hit hard by 
the lockdown imposed to curb the COVID-19 
pandemic. Faced with this unprecedented situation, 
more than 400 women photographers have come 
together in a unique collaborative project, The Journal – 
which started spontaneously in mid-March 2020, 
following a call on Facebook by the Women 
Photograph community. 
Launched in 2017, this network – whose mission it is 
to increase the presence of women photojournalists 
in the media – has attracted over 1,000 members 
in more than 100 countries. 
Women photographers participating in The Journal 
project documented their daily lives during the weeks 
and months of lockdown, through images. From Bangkok 
to Kampala, via  Beijing, Tbilisi and Mexico City, they offer 
very personal, poetic, melancholic, or humorous accounts 
of their self-isolation. This plunge into their private lives 
portrays a paradoxical moment – lived collectively, but 
with each one in their own homes.
This women’s perspective, which is claimed as such, is rare 
in a milieu where women photojournalists are blatantly 
under-represented. “There isn’t a shortage of women 
photographers, just a lack of equitable hiring,” explains 
Daniella Zalcman, founder of Women Photograph. 
The non-profit, which compiles data on parity in 
photojournalism, points out that only 29.5 per cent of the 
photos published in The New York Times in 2019 were 
taken by women. In Le Monde and The Guardian, the figure 
is just over ten per cent. The pandemic is likely to widen 
these inequalities even further.
As many as ninety-six per cent of the members 
of Women Photograph say they have been affected 
financially by the pandemic. The collective has set up 
the Women Photograph COVID-19 Emergency Fund 
to help their members, most of whom are independent 
photographers.
 NAZIK ARMENAKYAN, YEREVAN, ARMENIA: 
“Day 11 of isolation. Self-portrait with a cherry 
blossom tree blooming in our office backyard. 
Drove there to fetch some important things. 
Our office has been locked for over ten days.”

38   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020
 YAN CONG, BEIJING, CHINA: 
“On Day 3 of my 14-day quarantine 
in a Beijing hotel room, I started 
taking photos through the peephole. 
Throughout the quarantine, I was 
not allowed to leave my room, 
and all my meals were left at 
the door to avoid direct interpersonal 
contact. The peephole became 
the only way for me to observe 
the quarantine apparatus.”
 TARINA RODRIGUEZ, PANAMA CITY, 
PANAMA: “When the abnormal becomes normal 
in everyday life. This is the entrance to my home.”

ZOOM  •  Lockdown travel diaries   |   39 
ELISABETTA ZAVOLI, RIMINI, ITALY: “And in Darkness, You 
Find Colours is a participatory photo project I’ve been working 
on with my two sons, Davide, 11, and Giovanni, 8. They are 
aware that beyond our garden fence, there’s a serious epidemic 
going on all over the world. They have lots of questions about 
it, and fears and imaginations. To cope with these feelings, 
we decided to create a world of dreams – thanks to our 
connection with the countryside that surrounds us – by carving 
our imaginations out of complete darkness, by illuminating 
the scene, every night, with different sources of lights. 

40   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020
 SAUMYA KHANDELWAL, NEW 
DELHI, INDIA: “This is a photo 
of my grandfather, Mahesh Kumar 
Khandelwal, while he shaves 
in the sunlight entering his room 
in Lucknow, on 22 March, 2020. 
We had just sold our ancestral 
house (where the photo was 
taken), and were supposed to move 
out a couple of days later, but 
the lockdown has delayed those 
plans. In the meantime, I am 
cherishing the extra time I get 
in the house where I grew up.” 

ZOOM  •  Lockdown travel diaries   |   41 
 KHADIJA FARAH, NAIROBI, KENYA: “Some days I don’t wake up feeling like a wet rag. When that happens, 
I muster enough energy to do a face mask, paint my nails, and gab with my best friends around the world about non-
virus-related issues. These days are becoming more frequent, and when I feel a bit more of myself coming back.” 
 JANET JARMAN, MEXICO 
CITY: “Security in Mexico, where 
I live, has deteriorated significantly 
in recent years, adding an extra 
layer of stress to the health crisis. 
I am sure I am not alone.” 
 IMAN AL-DABBAGH, 
JEDDAH, SAUDI ARABIA: 
Zahra and Samer had planned 
to be at a resort in Egypt for their 
wedding when the pandemic 
broke. Instead, they ended up 
being married quietly at home.

42   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

ZOOM  •  Lockdown travel diaries   |   43 
 ALEJANDRA CARLES-TOLRA, LONDON, 
UNITED KINGDOM: “In response to the current 
confinement, and as an attempt to keep myself 
inspired and positive, I started going around my 
London flat, looking for beautiful light coming 
from outside. I then decided to playfully portray 
the essential objects that accompany me these days, 
under this beautiful light that keeps me sane.”
 DARO SULAKAURI, TBILISI, GEORGIA: “My aunt is a first-grade 
teacher. She is old-school when it comes to technology, but has managed 
to learn really fast. She holds online classes from her bedroom via Zoom 
every day, with fifteen-twenty of her students. And – I love her!” 

44   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020
 WATSAMON “JUNE” TRI-YASAKDA, BANGKOK, THAILAND:  
Food-delivery drivers practise social distancing while 
waiting for food and drink orders from restaurants 
that are open for takeaways and deliveries. 

ZOOM  •  Lockdown travel diaries   |   45 
 SUMY SADURNI, KAMPALA, UGANDA: Alicia (right) has been on lockdown since before the COVID-19 pandemic,  
due to life-threatening injuries she sustained in an accident in Kampala. Danny (left), who is cooking 
goat on an outdoor stove, is her housemate, friend and support system. Now that they’re both 
always at home, they spend their days baking, cooking, recovering, and relaxing.

46  |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

The lack of knowledge about the diseases 
that caused these epidemics and their 
modes of infection, led the authorities, 
very early on, to take the only possible 
sanitary measures to limit their spread. 
Examples include the isolation of the 
sick, since the eighth century, to stop 
the spread of leprosy; then confinement 
in the fourteenth century, to contain 
the plague, which was rampant at the time. 
At sea, the corpses of infected people who 
died on ships were thrown overboard. The 
first measures of forced sanitary isolation 
were taken in Ragusa – now Dubrovnik – 
in the fourteenth century; then in Venice, 
in the fifteenth century. Both cities had 
imposed several weeks of quarantine on 
ships at the time. This measure became 
widespread in major ports, including 
Genoa and Naples in Italy, and Marseille 
in France. 
The search 
for scapegoats
The consequences of such measures 
proved very unfavourable for trade. Like 
the Justinian plague which raged through 
different parts of the world from the sixth 
to the eighth centuries, the Black Death 
which struck Europe in the mid-fourteenth 
century, severely disrupted traditional 
trade routes. The Mediterranean basin 
was abandoned in favour of the region 
of Flanders, which became a major trading 
centre in Europe. In fact, the desire not 
to harm trade was a significant factor 
in the management of epidemics – often 
dramatically delaying measures to curb 
The microbes and viruses  
that made history
Epidemics and pandemics are not new phenomena. Leprosy, plague, cholera 
and smallpox have all left their deadly mark on human history. They have also 
led humans to question themselves, and often result in positive change.  
Ana María Carrillo Farga
Medical historian, pandemics expert 
and professor at the Department of Public 
Health, National Autonomous University 
of Mexico (UNAM) .
Characterized by their rapid spread 
and high mortality rates, epidemics – 
whether they are linked to bacterial 
diseases, such as bubonic plague 
and cholera, or to viruses, such as 
smallpox, influenza and HIV/AIDS – have 
left their mark on human history since 
prehistoric times. 
These epidemics have been responsible 
for a massive number of deaths 
– occasionally resulting 
in demographic disasters – 
and have even changed 
the course of history sometimes. The Great 
Plague of Athens, which struck the city 
between 430 and 426 BC, certainly 
precipitated the fall of the besieged city. 
The populations of the Inca and Aztec 
empires were decimated by smallpox, 
brought in by Spanish conquistadors 
in the sixteenth century. Many historians 
believe that the Spanish flu helped 
to accelerate the end of the First World War. 
IDEAS

©
 T
hi
ag
o 
Lu
ca
s 
/ 
C
ar
to
on
 M
ov
em
en
t

IDEAS  •  The microbes and viruses that made history   |  47 

their spread. It was not uncommon for 
traders and politicians to try to cover up 
their existence. 
The history of epidemics is also marked 
by the emergence of popular movements 
against certain social groups accused 
of causing the disease. The massive, 
simultaneous and sudden loss of human 
lives generated such a sense of fear 
and disarray that it led to a quest to find 
the culprits – most often, the poorest 
and most marginalized populations, 
who were then discriminated against. 
Pandemics caused widespread suffering, 
affecting entire families and villages. 
The Black Death killed an estimated 
25 million to 40 million in Europe 
– a third to half of the population at 
the time. It took more than two centuries 
for the continent to regain its previous 
population. The Spanish flu of 1918 caused 
the deaths of an estimated 50 million 
people worldwide. It is difficult to imagine 
the state of devastation that this 
pandemic must have caused at the end 
of the First World War. 
Confronted with death 
and the unexplained, these disasters led 
humans to reflect on their  condition. 
The events also drove progress in the 
search for treatments and preventive 
measures. Although medicine was still 
in its infancy at the end of the Middle 
Ages, certain hygiene measures were 
beginning to be imposed. As early 
as in the fourteenth century, the bed 
linen of patients was being changed. 
After the cholera epidemic that struck 
London in the mid-nineteenth  century, 
the authorities started monitoring 
the water supply.
Emergence of public 
health policies
The succession of deadly epidemics has 
led many countries to understand that it is 
more costly to treat a health crisis than 
to prevent it. Cholera, a pre-eminently 
social disease, highlighted the deplorable 
conditions in which most of the world’s 
inhabitants lived and worked. The 
need to implement long-term health 
policies gradually emerged – to promote 
hygiene measures, adopt sanitary codes, 
and conduct research into the cause 
of diseases and their prevention. 
As diseases do not respect borders, 
international co-operation in public 
health developed during the second half 
of the nineteenth century. This resulted 
in a series of conferences and the drafting 
of international health conventions. 
In an effort to prevent the spread 
of epidemics – especially cholera 
and the plague – while limiting trade 
barriers and the free movement of people 
as far as possible, twelve European states 
organized the first International Health 
Conference in Paris in 1851. This resulted 
in a draft International Sanitary 
Convention, accompanied by international 
regulations concerning the plague, yellow 
fever and cholera. 
Though similar conferences followed, 
it was not until 1903 that an International 
Health Convention was adopted, 
and the second half of the twentieth 
century that the World Health Organization 
was created, in the aftermath of the 
Second World War.  
Even though epidemics are caused by 
the circulation of microbes and viruses, this 
does not fully explain them. Very often, 
they are also the result of environmental, 
food, migration, health, economic 
or political crises. Epidemics act as an 
aggravating factor in pre-existing crises, 
often caused by war and famine. 
The current pandemic is no exception. 
It marks a crisis of our way of life. 
Scientific studies show that it is 
the systematic degradation of nature 
that is the root cause of the  COVID-19 
pandemic – industrial animal farming 
and deforestation in particular. 
Widespread deforestation is exerting 
unsustainable pressure on habitats, forcing 
animals out of their natural environments 
and encouraging pathogens to jump from 
one species to another – as was the case 
for the Ebola and Zika viruses. 
Epidemics put humanity to the test, with 
a collective threat, followed by mourning.
But history has shown us that they always 
come to an end – and that emerging 
from each one, humanity has been 
able to reinvent itself, and even make 
some advances. The current pandemic 
could similarly lead to a world that 
is more respectful of the environment 
and of human life. 
The influenza ward at the United States 
Army Field Hospital No. 29, in Hollerich, 
Luxembourg, during the Spanish Flu in 1918. 
Confronted with death 
and the unexplained, 
these disasters led humans 
to reflect on their condition

©
 P
ub
lic
 D
om
ai
n 
/ 
U
 .S
 . D
ep
ar
tm
en
t o
f D
ef
en
se
 

48   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

OUR GUEST
 How is this global health pandemic different from 
past health crises and what does it tell us?
I am not sure it is the worst global health threat 
we have faced. The influenza epidemic of 1918-1919 
was worse, the AIDS epidemic was probably worse, 
and pandemics in previous eras were certainly far 
worse. As pandemics go, this is actually a mild one. In 
the early 1980s, if you got AIDS – you died. The Black 
Death [the plague that ravaged Europe between 1347 
and 1351] killed between a quarter and half of the 
affected populations. The 1918 influenza killed more 
than ten per cent of the entire population in some 
countries. In contrast, COVID-19 is killing less than five 
per cent of those infected, and unless some dangerous 
mutation occurs, it is unlikely to kill more than one per 
cent of the population of any country. 
Moreover, in contrast to previous eras, we now have 
all the scientific knowledge and technological tools 
necessary to overcome this plague. When the Black 
Death struck, people were completely helpless. They 
never discovered what was killing them and what 
could be done about it. In 1348, the medical faculty 
of the University of Paris believed that the epidemic 
was caused by an astrological misfortune – namely 
that “a major conjunction of three planets in Aquarius 
[caused] a deadly corruption of the air” (quoted 
in Rosemary Horrox ed. The Black Death, Manchester 
University Press, 1994, p. 159). 
In contrast, when COVID-19 erupted, it took scientists 
only two weeks to correctly identify the virus 
responsible for the epidemic, sequence its entire 
genome, and develop reliable tests for the disease. 
We know what to do in order to stop the spread of this 
epidemic. It is likely that within a year or two, we will 
also have a vaccine. 
However, COVID-19 is not just a health-care crisis. 
It also results in a huge economic and political crisis. 
I am less afraid of the virus than of the inner demons 
of humankind: hatred, greed and ignorance. If people 
blame the epidemic on foreigners and minorities; if 
greedy businesses care only about their profits; and if 
we believe all kinds of conspiracy theories – it will be 
much harder to overcome this epidemic, and later on 
we will live in a world poisoned by this hatred, greed 
and ignorance. In contrast, if we react to the epidemic 
with global solidarity and generosity, and if we trust 
in science rather than in conspiracy theories, I am sure 
we can not only overcome this crisis, but actually come 
out of it much stronger. 
In an interview with the UNESCO Courier, Yuval Noah Harari, Israeli historian 
and author of Sapiens, Homo Deus, and 21 Lessons for the 21st Century, analyses what 
the consequences of the current coronavirus health crisis are likely to be, and underlines 
the need for greater international scientific co-operation and information-sharing 
between countries. 

OUR GUEST  •  Yuval Noah Harari: “Every crisis is also an opportunity”     |  49 


OUR GUEST Yuval Noah Harari: 
“Every crisis is also an opportunity”   

©
 c
ou
rt
es
y 
of
 Y
uv
al
 N
oa
h 
H
ar
ar
i

50   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

 To what extent could social distancing 
become the norm? What effect will that 
have on societies? 
For the duration of the crisis, some 
social distancing is inevitable. The virus 
spreads by exploiting our best human 
instincts. We are social animals. We like 
contact, especially in hard times. And 
when relatives, friends or neighbours are 
sick, our compassion arises and we want 
to come and help them. The virus is using 
this against us. This is how it spreads. So 
we need to act from the head rather than 
the heart, and despite the difficulties, 
reduce our level of contact. Whereas 
the virus is a mindless piece of genetic 
information, we humans have a mind, 
we can analyse the situation rationally, 
and we can vary the way we behave. 
I believe that once the crisis is over, we will 
not see any long-term effects on our basic 
human instincts. We will still be social 
animals. We will still love contact. We will 
still come to help friends and relatives. 
Look, for example, at what happened 
to the LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual 
and transgendered] community 
in the wake of AIDS. It was a terrible 
epidemic, and gay people were often 
completely abandoned by the state, 
and yet the epidemic did not cause 
the disintegration of that community. Just 
the opposite. Already, at the height of the 
crisis, LGBT volunteers established many 
new organizations to help sick people, 
to spread reliable information, and to fight 
for political rights. In the 1990s, after 
the worst years of the AIDS epidemic, 
the LGBT community in many countries 
was much stronger than before. 
 How do you see the state of scientific 
and information co-operation after 
the crisis? UNESCO was created after 
the Second World War to promote 
scientific and intellectual co-operation 
through the free flow of ideas. Could 
the “free flow of ideas” and co-operation 
between countries be strengthened as 
a result of the crisis? 
Our biggest advantage over the virus 
is our ability to co-operate effectively. A 
virus in China and a virus in the United 
States cannot swap tips about how 
to infect humans. But China can teach 
the US many valuable lessons about 
coronavirus and how to deal with it. 
More than that – China can actually send 
experts and equipment to directly help 
the US, and the US can similarly help other 
countries. The viruses cannot do anything 
like that. 
And of all forms of co-operation, 
the sharing of information is probably 
the most important, because you cannot 
do anything without accurate information. 
You cannot develop medicines 
and vaccines without reliable information. 
Indeed, even isolation depends on 
information. If you don’t understand how 
a disease spreads, how can you quarantine 
people against it? 
For example, isolation against AIDS 
is very different from isolation against 
COVID-19. To isolate yourself against AIDS, 
you need to use a condom while having 
sex, but there is no problem talking face 
to face with an HIV+ person – or shaking 
their hands and even hugging them. 
COVID-19 is an entirely different story. 
To know how to isolate yourself from 
a particular epidemic, you first need 
reliable information about what causes 
this epidemic. Is it viruses or bacteria? Is 
it transmitted through blood or breath? 
Does it endanger children or the elderly? Is 
there just one strain of the virus, or several 
mutant strains? 
If we want to enjoy 
trustworthy scientific 
information in a time 
of emergency, 
we must invest 
in it in normal times

Ill
us
tr
at
io
ns
: ©
 S
el
çu
k 
D
em
ire
l

OUR GUEST  •  Yuval Noah Harari: “Every crisis is also an opportunity”     |  51 

In recent years, authoritarian and populist 
politicians have sought not only to block 
the free flow of information, but even 
to undermine the public’s trust in science. 
Some politicians depicted scientists 
as a sinister elite, disconnected from 
“the people”. These politicians told their 
followers not to believe what scientists are 
saying about climate change, or even about 
vaccinations. It should now be obvious 
to everyone how dangerous such populist 
messages are. In a time of crisis, we need 
information to flow openly, and we need 
people to trust scientific experts rather than 
political demagogues. 
Fortunately, in the current emergency 
most people indeed turn to science. 
The Catholic Church instructs the faithful 
to stay away from the churches. Israel has 
closed down its synagogues. The Islamic 
Republic of Iran is punishing people who 
go to mosques. Temples and sects of all 
kinds have suspended public ceremonies. 
And all because scientists have made some 
calculations and recommended closing 
down these holy places.
I hope that people will remember 
the importance of trustworthy scientific 
information even after this crisis is over. 
If we want to enjoy trustworthy scientific 
information in a time of emergency, 
we must invest in it in normal times. 
Scientific information doesn’t come 
down from heaven, nor does it spring 
from the mind of individual geniuses. 
It depends on having strong independent 
institutions like universities, hospitals 
and newspapers. Institutions that not only 
research the truth, but are also free to tell 
people the truth, without being afraid 
of being punished by some authoritarian 
government. It takes years to build such 
institutions. But it is worth it. A society that 
provides citizens with a good scientific 
education, and that is served by strong 
independent institutions, can deal with 
an epidemic far better than a brutal 
dictatorship that has to constantly police 
an ignorant population. 
For example, how do you make millions 
of people wash their hands with soap 
every day? One way to do it is to place 
a policeman, or perhaps a camera, 
in every toilet, and punish people who 
fail to wash their hands. Another way 
is to teach people in school about viruses 
and bacteria, explain that soap can remove 
or kill these pathogens, and then trust 
people to make up their own minds. 
What do you think, which method is more 
efficient? 
 How important is it for countries 
to work together to disseminate reliable 
information?
Countries need to share trustworthy 
information not only about narrow 
medical issues, but also about a wide 
range of other issues – from the economic 
impact of the crisis to the psychological 
condition of citizens. Suppose country 
X is currently debating which kind 
of lockdown policy to adopt. It has to take 
into consideration not only the spread 
of the disease, but also the economic 
and psychological costs of lockdown. 
Other countries have already faced this 
dilemma before, and tried different 
policies. Instead of acting on the basis 
of pure speculations and repeating past 
mistakes, country X can examine what 
were the actual consequences of the 
different policies adopted in China, 
the Republic of  Korea, Sweden, Italy 
and the United Kingdom. It can thereby 
make better decisions. But only if all 
these countries honestly report not just 
the number of sick and dead people, but 
also what happened to their economies 
and to the mental health of their citizens. 
 The rise of AI and the need for technical 
solutions has seen private companies 
come forward. In this context, is it still 
possible to develop global ethical 
principles and restore international co-
operation? 
As private companies get involved, 
it becomes even more important to craft 
global ethical principles and restore 
international co-operation. Some private 
companies may be motivated by greed 
more than solidarity, so they must be 
regulated carefully. Even those acting 
benevolently are not directly accountable 
to the public, so it is dangerous to allow 
them to accumulate too much power. 
This is particularly true when talking 
about surveillance. We are witnessing 
the creation of new surveillance systems 
all over the world, by both governments 
and corporations. The current crisis 
might mark an important watershed 
in the history of surveillance. First, 
because it might legitimate and normalize 
the deployment of mass surveillance tools 
in countries that have so far rejected them. 
Secondly, and even more importantly, 
it signifies a dramatic transition from “over 
the skin” to “under the skin” surveillance. 
Previously, governments and corporations 
monitored mainly your actions in the world 
– where you go, who you meet. Now they 
have become more interested in what 
is happening inside your body. In your 
medical condition, body temperature, 
blood pressure. That kind of biometric 
information can tell governments 
and corporations far more about you than 
ever before. 
 Could you suggest some ethical 
principles for how these new surveillance 
systems can be regulated? 
Ideally, the surveillance system should be 
operated by a special health-care authority 
rather than by a private company or by 
the security services. The health-care 
authority should be narrowly focused on 
preventing epidemics, and should have 
no other commercial or political interests. 

52   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

I am particularly alarmed when I hear 
people comparing the COVID-19 crisis 
to war, and calling for the security services 
to take over. This isn’t a war. It is a health-
care crisis. There are no human enemies 
to kill. It is all about taking care of people. 
The dominant image in war is a soldier 
with a rifle storming forward. Now 
the image in our heads should be a nurse 
changing bed-sheets in a hospital. Soldiers 
and nurses have a very different way 
of thinking. If you want to put somebody 
in charge, don’t put a soldier in charge. Put 
a nurse.  
The health-care authority should gather 
the minimum amount of data necessary for 
the narrow task of preventing epidemics, 
and should not share this data with any 
other governmental body – especially not 
the police. Nor should it share the data 
with private companies. It should make 
sure that data gathered about individuals 
is never used to harm or manipulate 
these individuals – for example, leading 
to people losing their jobs or their 
insurance.  
The health-care authority may make 
the data accessible to scientific research, 
but only if the fruits of this research are 
made freely available to humanity, and if 
any incidental profits are reinvested 
in providing people with better health care. 
In contrast to all these limitations on data 
sharing, the individuals themselves should 
be given as much control of the data 
gathered about them. They should be free 
to examine their personal data and benefit 
from it.
Finally, while such surveillance systems 
would probably be national in character, 
to really prevent epidemics, the different 
health-care authorities would have to co-
operate with one another. Since pathogens 
don’t respect national borders, unless 
we combine data from different countries, 
it will be difficult to spot and stop 
epidemics. If national surveillance is done 
by an independent health-care authority 
which is free of political and commercial 
interests, it would be much easier for such 
national authorities to co-operate globally. 
 You have spoken of a recent rapid 
deterioration of trust in the international 
system. How do you see the profound 
changes in multilateral co-operation 
in the future?
I don’t know what will happen 
in the future. It depends on the choices 
we make in the present. Countries can 
choose to compete for scarce resources 
and pursue an egoistic and isolationist 
policy, or they could choose to help one 
another in the spirit of global solidarity. 
This choice will shape both the course 
of the present crisis and the future of the 
international system for years to come. 
I hope countries will choose solidarity 
and co-operation. We cannot stop this 
epidemic without close co-operation 
between countries all over the world. 
Even if a particular country succeeds 
in stopping the epidemic in its territory 
for a while, as long as the epidemic 
continues to spread elsewhere, it might 
return everywhere. Even worse, viruses 
constantly mutate. A mutation in the virus 
anywhere in the world might make it more 
contagious or more deadly, putting 
in danger all of humankind. The only 
way we can really protect ourselves, is by 
helping to protect all humans. 
The same is true of the economic crisis. 
If every country looks only after its own 
interests, the result will be a severe 
global recession that will hit everyone. 
Rich countries like the US, Germany 
and Japan will muddle through one way 
or the other. But poorer countries in Africa, 
Asia and Latin America might completely 
collapse. The US can afford a $2 trillion 
rescue package for its economy. Ecuador, 
Nigeria and Pakistan don’t have similar 
resources. We need a global economic 
rescue plan. 
Unfortunately, so far we don’t see anything 
like the strong global leadership we need. 
The US, which acted as world leader during 
the 2014 Ebola epidemic and the 2008 
financial crisis, has abdicated this job. 
The Trump administration has made 
it very clear that it cares only about the US, 
and has abandoned even its closest allies 
in Western Europe. Even if the US now 
comes up with some kind of global plan, 
who would trust it, and who would follow 
its lead? Would you follow a leader whose 
motto is “Me First”? 
But every crisis is also an opportunity. 
Hopefully the current epidemic will help 
humankind realize the acute danger 
posed by global disunity. If indeed this 
epidemic eventually results in closer global 
co-operation, it will be a victory not only 
against the coronavirus, but against all 
the other dangers that threaten humankind 
– from climate change to nuclear war. 
National surveillance must be done 
by an independent health-care 
authority which is free of political 
and commercial interests

OUR GUEST  •  Yuval Noah Harari: “Every crisis is also an opportunity”     |  53 

 You speak about how the choices 
we make now will affect our societies 
economically, politically and culturally, 
for years to come. What are these choices 
and who will be responsible for making 
them? 
We are faced with many choices. Not 
only the choice between nationalistic 
isolationism and global solidarity. Another 
important question is whether people 
would support the rise of dictators, 
or would they insist on dealing with 
the emergency in a democratic way? 
When governments spend billions to help 
failing businesses, would they save big 
corporations or small family businesses? 
As people switch to working from home 
and communicating online, will this 
result in the collapse of organized labour, 
or would we see better protection for 
workers’ rights?
All these are political choices. We must 
be aware that we are now facing not just 
a health-care crisis, but also a political 
crisis. The media and the citizens should 
not allow themselves to be completely 
distracted by the epidemic. It is of course 
important to follow the latest news about 
the sickness itself – how many people 
died today? How many people were 
infected? But it is equally important to pay 
attention to politics and to put pressure 
on politicians to do the right thing. 
Citizens should pressure politicians to act 
in the spirit of global solidarity; to co-
operate with other countries rather than 
blame them; to distribute funds in a fair 
way; to preserve democratic checks 
and balances – even in an emergency. 
The time to do all that is now. Whoever 
we elect to government in coming years 
will not be able to reverse the decisions 
that are taken now. If you become 
president in 2021, it is like coming 
to a party when the party is already over, 
and the only thing left to do is wash 
the dirty dishes. If you become president 
in 2021, you will discover that the previous 
government has already distributed 
tens of billions of dollars – and you have 
a mountain of debts to repay. The previous 
government has already restructured 
the job market – and you cannot start from 
scratch again. The previous government 
has already introduced new surveillance 
systems – and they cannot be abolished 
overnight. So don’t wait till 2021. Monitor 
what the politicians are doing right now.

54   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020
MAPPING 
THE WORLD
©
 U
N
IC
EF
 /
 D
an
ie
le
 V
ol
pe

MAPPING THE WORLD  •  Education: An unprecedented crisis   |   55 

Katerina Markelova
UNESCO

The closure of schools and universities around 
the world to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 
pandemic, caused a major education crisis that 
reached its peak in mid-April 2020. Between 
16 and 19 April, schools shut down in more 
than 190 countries, affecting 1.57 billion children 
and young people – over ninety per cent of all 
learners. Throughout the health crisis, UNESCO 
monitored the situation globally, by publishing a map 
of school closures on its website.
The choice of digital distance education – to which 
the vast majority of countries have turned, to ensure 
educational continuity – has made the problem 
of the digital divide even more evident. Some 
826 million – half the world’s pupils and students – 
do not have computers at home and 706 million  
(forty-three per cent) are not connected 
to the internet. The lack of connectivity is of particular 
concern in sub-Saharan Africa, where the proportion 
of young people without internet access at home 
is as high as eighty per cent.
According to a recent UNESCO survey on measures 
taken by fifty-nine countries to mitigate the impact 
of school closures, only fifty-eight per cent of low-
income countries have e-learning platforms. Sixty-
four per cent of teachers in countries that responded 
to the survey (regardless of income level) do not have 
sufficient digital skills to deliver online education 
effectively. This is also the case for eighty per cent 
of parents and forty-eight per cent of students.
MAPPING THE WORLD examines some 
of the initiatives to expand connectivity, taken 
within the framework of the Global Education 
Coalition, launched by UNESCO on 26 March 2020. 
Over 100 institutions from the public and private 
sectors have pooled their expertise to offer quick, 
free and appropriate solutions to countries that lack 
the technology, content, or skills needed for distance 
learning.
Education: 
An unprecedented crisis
 A deserted classroom at the Official 
Rural Mixed School in the Los Mixcos village 
of Palencia in Guatemala, April 2020. 

UNESCO.ORG
56   |   The UNESCO Courier • July-September 2020

This map shows the full extent of school closures around the world at the height 
of the crisis (as of 17 April 2020). It also shows some of the actions taken by 
members of the Global Education Coalition in support of distance education. 
Localized Country-wide Open
In Gabon, 
UNESCO 
trained sixty primary 
and secondary school 
educational supervisors to 
design online courses. Courses 
produced within the framework 
of the Train My Generation: Gabon 
5000 project have also been made 
available to the government.
In Lebanon, UNESCO 
and Education 
Cannot Wait, with 
the support of the French government, 
provided the Ministry of Education 
and Higher Education with online 
learning content for teachers 
and students. Almost 300 video 
courses in mathematics, science, 
and French, provided by France’s 
Réseau Canopé, are available 
on the online platform 
launched by the Ministry.
In Samoa, telecommunications 
company Vodafone 
provided around 80,000 learners 
with a free student SIM card 
that includes unlimited access 
to 4G data on a range of approved 
educational websites.
UNESCO and several coalition 
partners – including Moodle, 
Khan Academy, and Lark 
– have organized online training for 
teachers to develop the skills needed 
to implement online courses in five Pacific 
Island states: Kiribati, Nauru, Papua 
New Guinea, Samoa and Tonga.
PEAK OF SCHOOL CLOSURES  
and COALITION RESPONSES

UNESCO.ORG
MAPPING THE WORLD  •  Education: An unprecedented crisis   |   57 

 1,576,873,546 learners affected
 90.1% of all learners
 190 closures at the national level
The figures correspond to the number of learners enrolled in pre-primary, primary, lower secondary and upper  
secondary education [International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED) levels 0 to 3], and in tertiary education 
[ISCED levels 5 to 8]. Enrolment figures are based on the latest data from the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS).( (
The mobile operator Orange 
provided free internet access to digital 
educational content in sub-Saharan Africa: 
Burkina Faso, Guinea, Mali, Democratic 
Republic of Congo; and in Arab States: 
Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia.

©
 U
N
ES
C
O

The Big Conversation
Handbook to Address Violence 
against Women in and through 
the Media
ISBN 978-92-3-100332-5 
90 pp., 116 x 280 mm, paperback 
UNESCO Publishing/UN Women 
Available on https://unesdoc.unesco.org
Smart about Cities
Forging Links for the Future
ISBN 978-92-3-100376-9 
240 pp., 160 x 230 mm, paperback 
UNESCO Publishing/Netexplo 
Available on https://unesdoc.unesco.org
The United Nations World 
Water Development Report 
2020
Water and Climate Change
ISBN 978-92-3-100371-4 
234 pp., 210 x 297 mm, paperback, €55 
Published by UNESCO on behalf of UN-Water 
On sale at https://www.dl-servi.com/
publishing.promotion@unesco.org
Cities across the world represent 
unique, collaborative spaces that can 
serve as laboratories for developing 
and experimenting with new ways 
to tackle urban challenges. 
This book aims at continuing to explore 
different models and approaches to 
the development of cities – revealing 
the limits of ‘Smart Cities’ as the concept 
for cities of the future. By observing 
how cities evolve and adapt, the author 
highlights the dynamic nature of cities 
and the importance of  strengthening 
connections with their territories and 
other cities – creating social bonds 
between citizens and functioning as 
an ecosystem at the human scale.
Violence against women remains one 
of the greatest human rights 
challenges of our time.
The most significant challenge remains 
the persistence of attitudes, beliefs, 
practices and behaviours in society 
that perpetuate stereotypes, 
discrimination and gender inequality. 
This handbook provides guidance and 
tools for those working with and within 
the media. The media is regarded as a 
key ‘entry point’ for preventing violence 
against women and girls in the long-
term. This is because of the media’s 
unique reach to broad sections of the 
population, and its ability to influence 
and shape ideas and perceptions about 
what is considered socially acceptable.
Supported by examples from across 
the world, the latest United Nations 
World Water Development Report 
describes both the challenges and 
opportunities created by climate 
change. It provides potential responses 
– in terms of adaptation, mitigation 
and improved resilience – that can be 
undertaken by enhancing the 
management of water resources. This 
would help reduce water-related risks, 
and improve access to water supply 
and sanitation services for all in a 
sustainable manner.
Co-ordinated and published by 
UNESCO’s World Water Assessment 
Programme on behalf of UN-Water, 
the report is published every year 
on World Water Day.
New publications
U
N
ES
C
O
 P
u
b
lis
h
in
g

CorreioO
2019: O Ano Internacional das Línguas Indígenas
Quando beber 
água, lembre-se 
da fonte
janeiro-março 2019
Ideias:
um ensaio inédito 
de W. H. Auden
DA  UNE SCO
حتديات  مناخية،
حتديات أخالقية
يوليو - سبتمرب 2019 
منظمة األمم المتحدة
للتربية والعلم والثقافة
 Ces profs 
 qui changent 
le monde
Canada 
L’école de la deuxième chance
Chili 
Apprendre derrière 
les barreaux
Chine 
Professeur à tout faire 
dans un village isolé
Congo 
Faire classe à 76 élèves
Inde 
L’école sous un pont
Sierra Leone 
Mohamed Sidibay : 
témoignage 
d’un ancien 
enfant soldat
CourrierDE  L’ UNE SCO
LE
octobre-décembre 2019
на волне 
со временем
Радио: 
«Радио Амбуланте»: голос Латинской Америки
Марк Талли: легенда индийских частот
Буркина-Фасо, страна любителей радио 
Himalaya FM: контент по вкусу аудитории в КитаеΟрганизация
Οбъединенньιх Ηаций по
вопросам образования,
науки и культуры
ЮНЕСКОКурьерянварь-март 2020 года
Subscribe  
to the print version
1 year (4 issues) : 27€
2 years (8 issues) : 54€
Subscription fees cover printing costs.  
There is no profit motive.
Many voices, one world 
The UNESCO Courier is published in the six official languages of 
the Organization, and also in Catalan, Esperanto, Korean, and Portuguese.   
https://en.unesco.org/courier • https://fr.unesco.org/courier  
 https://es.unesco.org/courier • https://ru.unesco.org/courier • https://ar.unesco.org/courier • https://zh.unesco.org/courier
Subscribe  
to the digital version
https://en.unesco.org/courier/subscribe
It’s 100% 
FREE

Follow us on social media networks!
@unescocourier
©
 H
yu
ng
 S
.K
im