The sinews of industrial society

Photo @ Virna Haffer, Tacona, U.S.A.

by Caroline F. Ware, K.M. Panikkar and J.M. Romein

P.... lay at the heart of electrification of the whole country”,

industrial society, for it was the use
of energy to operate machines and
implements that increased produc-
tivity and altered the character of the
production process itself. The use of
energy was the chief measure of a
society's degree of industrialization
and mechanization.

Following the oft-quoted dictum of
Lenin, “Communism is Soviet rule plus

the U.S.S.R. expanded its production
of electricity more than a hundredfold
during its first forty years. It put into
operation in 1959 the largest hydro-
electric project in the world and it was
feeding its growing volume of power
into an immense grid designed to
extend from Leningrad to eastern
Siberia.

Japan's thorough electrification after

In Pre-Columbian Mexico, petroleum

in a viscous state was used as a paint
in pottery decoration. Left, terracotta
head painted with bitumen. The Aztecs
found a more surprising use for this
substance. They mixed it with flavoured
resins to make “tritcli"—an ancestor

of today's chewing gum.

Fifteenth century engraving (right)

shows a man filling a pitcher from

a spring of petroleum—or “rock

oil" as it was cnce called. In late

medieval Europe, petroleum was

already being sought after as a

Ie) wondertul natural substance. Springs
of petroleum were found in Italy,

Germany and France.

the first worid war sustained her
nation-wide industrial development. For
the people of central Africa the great
Kariba dam on the Zambesi was the
surest evidence of Africa's emer-
gence into the modern world. The
Chinese People's Republic, in its
determination to provide a base for
massive industrialization, projected a
dam for the Yangtze river designed

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

£erolcom.LaMus felix ca.Depe

oleo. Petrolei dtolcum pene
Pngenicur suean | loae furfure

fit aii cum pinguedo terre 7 ag actfone
calozes ad 1gneas coucrueor pees. Joue
mieut cam fup lapides.quod ddem per
cosrdfudar Tin cis dfl.zfopmarcivenit.

